### Exercise 3: Create a function that triggers on a schedule

#### Task 1: Create a schedule-triggered function

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **Serverless** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Serverless** blade, select the **funclogic*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Functions** option from the **Functions** section.

1. In the **Functions** pane, select the **+ Add** button.

1.  In the **New Function** popup dialog, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Within the **Templates** tab, select **Timer trigger**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **New Function** text box and then enter **Recurring**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **Schedule** text box and then enter **0 \*/2 \* \* \* \***.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **Authorization** text box and then select **Anonymous**.

    1.  Select **Create Function**.

#### Task 2: Observe function runs

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Code + Test** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the function editor, select **Logs**.

1.  Observe the function run that occurs about every two minutes. Each function run should render a simple message to the log.

#### Task 3: Update the function integration configuration

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Integration** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the **Integration** pane, select the **Timer** trigger.

1.  In the **Edit Trigger** popup, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Schedule** text box, change the value to **\*/30 \* \* \* \* \***.

    1.  Select **Save**.

#### Task 4: Observe function runs

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Code + Test** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the function editor, select **Logs**.

1.  Observe the function run that now occurs about every 30 seconds. Each function run should render a simple message to the log.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a function that runs automatically based on a fixed schedule.

