### Exercise 1: Create an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) application registration

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create an application registration

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  From the **All services** blade, select **Azure Active Directory**.

1.  From the **Azure Active Directory** blade, select **App registrations** in the **Manage** section.

1.  In the **App registrations** section, select **New registration**.

1.  In the **Register an application** section, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **graphapp**.

    1.  In the **Supported account types** list, select the **Accounts in this organizational directory only (Default Directory only - Single tenant)** check box.

    1.  In the **Redirect URI** drop-down list, select **Public client/native (mobile & desktop)**.

    1.  In the **Redirect URI** text box, enter **http\://localhost**.

    1.  Select **Register**.

#### Task 3: Enable the default client type

1.  In the **graphapp** application registration blade, select **Authentication** in the **Manage** section.

1.  In the **Authentication** section, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Default client type** subsection, select **Yes**.

    1.  Select **Save**.

#### Task 4: Record unique identifiers

1.  On the **graphapp** application registration blade, select **Overview**.

1.  In the **Overview** section, find and record the value of the **Application (client) ID** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab.

1.  In the **Overview** section, find and record the value of the **Directory (tenant) ID** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a new application registration and recorded important values that you'll need later in the lab.

