### Exercise 1: Create a VM by using the Azure Command-Line Interface (CLI)

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you will be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create a resource group

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Create a resource** link.

    > **Note**: If you can't find the **Create a resource** link, the **Create a resource** icon is a plus sign (+) character from the portal.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box above the list of featured services.

1.  In the search box, enter the text **Resource Group**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Resource group** result.

1.  From the **Resource group** blade, select **Create**.

1.  From the additional **Resource group** blade, find the tabs from the blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new resource group. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** text box, enter the value **ContainerCompute**.
    
    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **(US) East US** location.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the resource group by using your specified configuration.  

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

#### Task 3: Open Azure Cloud Shell

1.  In the portal, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is represented by a greater than sign () and underscore character (\_).

1.  If this is your first time opening Cloud Shell using your subscription, you can use the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell Wizard** to configure Cloud Shell for first-time usage. Perform the following actions in the wizard:
    
    1.  A dialog box prompts you to create a new storage account to begin using the shell. Accept the default settings, and then select **Create storage**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for Cloud Shell to finish its initial setup procedures before moving forward with the lab. If you don't notice the **Cloud Shell** configuration options, this is most likely because you're using an existing subscription with this course's labs. The labs are written with the presumption that you're using a new subscription.

1.  At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt in the portal, enter the following command, and then select Enter to get the version of the Azure CLI tool:

    ```
    az --version
    ```

#### Task 4: Use the Azure CLI commands

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of subgroups and commands at the root level of the CLI:

    ```
    az --help
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of subgroups and commands for Azure Virtual Machines:

    ```
    az vm --help
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of arguments and examples for the **Create Virtual Machine** command:

    ```
    az vm create --help
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new **virtual machine** with the following settings:
    
    -	Resource group: **ContainerCompute**

    -	Name: **quickvm**

    -	Image: **Debian**

    -	Username: **Student**

    -	Password: **StudentPa55w.rd**

    ```
    az vm create --resource-group ContainerCompute --name quickvm --image Debian --admin-username student --admin-password StudentPa55w.rd
    ```

    > **Note**: Wait for the VM creation process to complete. After the process completes, the command will return a JSON file containing details about the machine.

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a more detailed JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) file that contains various metadata about the newly created VM:

    ```
    az vm show --resource-group ContainerCompute --name quickvm
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to list all the IP addresses associated with the VM:

    ```
    az vm list-ip-addresses --resource-group ContainerCompute --name quickvm
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to filter the output to only return the first IP address value:

    ```
    az vm list-ip-addresses --resource-group ContainerCompute --name quickvm --query '[].{ip:virtualMachine.network.publicIpAddresses[0].ipAddress}' --output tsv
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to store the results of the previous command in a new Bash shell variable named *ipAddress*:

    ```
    ipAddress=$(az vm list-ip-addresses --resource-group ContainerCompute --name quickvm --query '[].{ip:virtualMachine.network.publicIpAddresses[0].ipAddress}' --output tsv)
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to render the value of the Bash shell variable *ipAddress*:

    ```
    echo $ipAddress
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to connect to the VM that you created earlier in this lab by using the Secure Shell (SSH) tool and the IP address stored in the Bash shell variable *ipAddress*:

    ```
    ssh student@$ipAddress
    ```

1.  The SSH tool will first inform you that the authenticity of the host can’t be established and then ask if you want to continue connecting. Enter **yes**, and then select Enter to continue connecting to the VM.

1.  The SSH tool will then ask you for a password. Enter **StudentPa55w.rd**, and then select Enter to authenticate with the VM.

1.  After connecting to the VM by using SSH, enter the following command, and then select Enter to get metadata describing the Linux VM:

    ```
    uname -a
    ```

1.  Use the **exit** command to end your SSH session:

    ```
    exit
    ```

1.  Close the Cloud Shell pane in the portal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used Cloud Shell to create a VM as part of an automated script.

