### Exercise 4: Use Content Delivery Network endpoints

#### Task 1: Retrieve endpoint URIs

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **MarketingContent** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **MarketingContent** blade, select the **contentdeliverynetwork** CDN profile that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **CDN profile** blade, select the **cdnmedia*[yourname]*** endpoint.

1.  On the **Endpoint** blade, copy the value of the **Endpoint hostname** text box. You will use this value later in the lab.

1.  Close the **Endpoint** blade.

1.  Back on the **CDN profile** blade, select the **cdnvideo*[yourname]*** endpoint.

1.  On the **Endpoint** blade, copy the value of the **Endpoint hostname** text box. You will use this value later in the lab.

1.  Close the **Endpoint** blade.

#### Task 2: Test multimedia content

1.  Construct a URL for the **campus.jpg** resource by combining the **Endpoint hostname** URL from the **cdnmedia*[yourname]*** endpoint that you copied earlier in the lab with a relative path of **/campus.jpg**.

    > **Note**: For example, if your **Endpoint hostname** URL is **https://cdnmediastudent.azureedge.net/**, your newly constructed URL would be **https://cdnmediastudent.azureedge.net/campus.jpg**.

1.  Construct a URL for the **conference.jpg** resource by combining the **Endpoint hostname** URL from the **cdnmedia*[yourname]*** endpoint that you copied earlier in the lab with a relative path of **/conference.jpg**.

    > **Note**: For example, if your **Endpoint hostname** URL is **https://cdnmediastudent.azureedge.net/**, your newly constructed URL would be **https://cdnmediastudent.azureedge.net/conference.jpg**.

1.  Construct a URL for the **poster.jpg** resource by combining the **Endpoint hostname** URL from the **cdnmedia*[yourname]*** endpoint that you copied earlier in the lab with a relative path of **/poster.jpg**.

    > **Note**: For example, if your **Endpoint hostname** URL is **https://cdnmediastudent.azureedge.net/**, your newly constructed URL would be **https://cdnmediastudent.azureedge.net/poster.jpg**.

1.  Construct a URL for the **welcome.mp4** resource by combining the **Endpoint hostname** URL from the **cdnvideo*[yourname]*** endpoint that you copied earlier in the lab with a relative path of **/welcome.mp4**.

    > **Note**: For example, if your **Endpoint hostname** URL is **https://cdnvideostudent.azureedge.net/**, your newly constructed URL would be **https://cdnvideostudent.azureedge.net/welcome.mp4**.

1.  On the taskbar, right-click the **Microsoft Edge** icon or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **New window**.

1.  In the new browser window, go to the URL that you constructed for the **campus.jpg** media resource, and then verify that the resource was successfully found.

    > **Note**: If the content isn't available yet, the CDN endpoint is still initializing. This initialization process can take anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes.

1.  Go to the URL that you constructed for the **conference.jpg** media resource, and then verify that the resource was successfully found.

1.  Go to the URL that you constructed for the **poster.jpg** media resource, and then verify that the resource was successfully found.

1.  Go to the URL that you constructed for the **welcome.mp4** video resource, and then verify that the resource was successfully found.

1.  Close the browser window that you created in this task.

#### Task 3: Update the Web App settings

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MarketingContent** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **MarketingContent** blade, select the **landingpage*[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **App Service** blade, in the **Settings** category, select the **Configuration** link.

1.  In the **Configuration** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select the **Application settings** tab.
    
    1.  Select the existing **CDNMediaEndpoint** application setting.

    1.  In the **Add/Edit application setting** pop-up dialog box, update the **Value** text box by entering the **Endpoint hostname** URL from the **cdnmedia*[yourname]*** endpoint that you copied earlier in the lab, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  Select the existing **CDNVideoEndpoint** application setting.

    1.  In the **Add/Edit application setting** pop-up dialog box, update the **Value** text box by entering the **Endpoint hostname** URL from the **cdnvideo*[yourname]*** endpoint that you copied earlier in the lab, and then selec **OK**.
    
    1.  Select **Save** on the blade to persist your settings.  

    > **Note**: Wait for your application settings to persist before you move forward with the lab.

1.  Back in the **Configuration** section, select **Overview**.

1.  In the **Overview** section, select **Restart**. This operation will restart the Web App.

    > **Note**: Wait for the restart operation to complete before you move forward with the lab. You'll receive a notification when the operation is done.

#### Task 4: Test the web content

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **MarketingContent** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **MarketingContent** blade, select the **contentdeliverynetwork** CDN profile that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **CDN profile** blade, select the **cdnweb*[yourname]*** endpoint.

1.  On the **Endpoint** blade, copy the value of the **Endpoint hostname** text box.

1.  On the taskbar, right-click the **Microsoft Edge** icon or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **New window**.

1.  In the new browser window, go to the **Endpoint hostname** URL for the **cdnweb*[yourname]*** endpoint.

1.  Observe the website and multimedia content that are all served using Content Delivery Network.

#### Review

In this exercise, you updated your Web App to use Content Delivery Network to serve multimedia content and to serve the web application itself.

