### Exercise 2: Build an API proxy tier by using Azure API Management

#### Task 1: Create an API Management resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **API**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **API Management** result.

1.  From the **API Management** blade, select **Create**.

1.  From the **API Management Service** blade, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **prodapi*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** list, select the **ApiService** group that you created earlier in the lab.
    
    1.  In the **Location** list, select **East US**.
    
    1.  In the **Organization name** text box, enter **Contoso**.
    
    1.  Leave the **Administrator email** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Pricing tier** list, select **Consumption (99.9 SLA, %)**.
    
    1.  Select **Create**.

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Task 2: Define a new API

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **ApiService** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **ApiService** blade, select the **prodapi*[yourname]*** API Management account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **API Management Service** blade, in the **API Management** section, select **APIs** .

1.  In the **Add a new API** section, select **Blank API**.

1.  In the **Create a blank API** window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Display name** text box, enter **HTTPBin API**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **httpbin-api**.
    
    1.  In the **Web service URL** text box, enter the URL for the web app that you copied earlier in this lab.

        > **Note**: Depending on how you copy the URL, you might need to add an "http://" prefix to create a valid URL value.

    1.  Leave the **API URL suffix** text box empty.

    1.  Select **Create**.

    > **Note**: Wait for the new API to finish being created.

1.  From the **Design** tab, select **Add operation**.

1.  In the **Add operation** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Display name** text box, enter **Echo Headers**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **echo-headers**.
    
    1.  In the **URL** list, select **GET**.

    1.  In the **URL** text box, enter **/**.
    
    1.  Select **Save**.

1.	Back from the **Design** tab, in the list of operations, select **All Operations**.

1.	In the **Design** section for **All Operations**, find the **Inbound processing** tile, and then select **Add policy**.

1.	In the **Add inbound policy** section, select the **Set headers** tile.

1.	In the **Inbound processing, Set Headers** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **source**.
    
    1.  In the **Value** text box, select the list, select **Add Value**, and then enter **azure-api-mgmt**.
    
    1.  In the **Action** list, select **append**.
    
    1.  Select **Save**.

1.	Back from the **Design** tab, in the list of operations, select **Echo Headers**.

1.	In the **Design** section for **Echo Headers**, find the **Backend** tile, and then select the pencil icon.

1.  In the **Backend** section, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Service URL** section, select the **Override** check box.

    1.  In the **Service URL** text box, append the value **/headers** to its current value.

        > **Note**: For example, if the current value is **http://httpapi*[yourname]*.azurewebsites.net**, the new value will be **http://httpapi*[yourname]*.azurewebsites.net/headers**

    1.  Select **Save**.

1.	Back from the **Design** tab, in the list of operations, select **Echo Headers**.

1.	From the **Test** tab, select the **Echo Headers** operation.

1.	In the **Echo Headers** section, select **Send**.

1.	Observe the results of the API request.

    > **Note**: Observe how there's many headers sent as part of your request that are echoed in the response. Specifically, you'll notice the new **Source** header that you created as part of this task.

1.	Select the **Design** tab to return to the list of operations.

#### Task 3: Manipulate an API response

1.  From the **Design** tab, select **Add operation**.

1.  In the **Add operation** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Display name** text box, enter **Get Legacy Data**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **get-legacy-data**.
    
    1.  In the **URL** list, select **GET**.
    
    1.  In the **URL** text box, enter **/xml**.
    
    1.  Select **Save**.

1.  Back from the **Design** tab, in the list of operations, select **Get Legacy Data**.

1.	From the **Test** tab, select the **Get Legacy Data** operation.

1.	In the **Get Legacy Data** section, select **Send**.

1.	Observe the results of the API request.

    > **Note**: At this point, the results should be in XML format.

1.	Back from the **Design** tab, in the list of operations, select **Get Legacy Data**.

1.  In the **Design** section for the **Get Legacy Data** operation, find the **Outbound processing** tile, and then select **Add policy**.

1.  In the **Add outbound policy** section, select the **Other policies** tile.

1.  In the policy code editor, find the following block of XML content:

    ```
    <outbound>
        <base />
    </outbound>
    ```

1.	Replace that block of XML with the following XML:

    ```
    <outbound>
        <base />
        <xml-to-json kind="direct" apply="always" consider-accept-header="false" />
    </outbound>
    ```

1.  In the policy code editor, select **Save**.

1.  Back from the **Design** tab, in the list of operations, select **Get Legacy Data**.

1.	From the **Test** tab, select the **Get Legacy Data** operation.

1.	In the **Get Legacy Data** section, select **Send**.

1.	Observe the results of the API request.

    > **Note**: The new results are in JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format.

1.  Within the **HTTP response** section, perform the following actions:

    1.  Select **Trace**.

    1.  Observe the content in the **Backend** and **Outbound** text boxes.

#### Review

In this exercise, you built a proxy tier between your App Service resource and any developers who wish to make queries.

