### Exercise 3: Write function app code 

#### Task 1: Create a Key Vault-derived application setting 

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securefunc*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Configuration** option from the **Settings** section.

1.  From the **Configuration** pane, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select the **Application settings** tab, and then select **New application setting**.
    
    1.  In the **Add/Edit application setting** pop-up window, in the **Name** text box, enter **StorageConnectionString**.
    
    1.  In the **Value** text box, construct a value by using the following syntax: **@Microsoft.KeyVault(SecretUri=*Secret Identifier*)**

        > **Note**: You'll need to build a reference to your ***Secret Identifier*** by using the above syntax. For example, if your secret identifier is **https://securevaultstudent.vault.azure.net/secrets/storagecredentials/17b41386df3e4191b92f089f5efb4cbf**, then your value would be **@Microsoft.KeyVault(SecretUri=https://securevaultstudent.vault.azure.net/secrets/storagecredentials/17b41386df3e4191b92f089f5efb4cbf)**
    
    1.  Leave the **deployment slot setting** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Select **OK** to close the pop-up window and return to the **Configuration** section.
    
    1.  Select **Save** from the blade to persist your settings.  

    1.  In the **Save Changes** confirmation popup dialog, select **Continue**.

    > **Note**: Wait for your application settings to persist before you move forward with the lab.

#### Task 2: Create an HTTP-triggered function

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securefunc*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Functions** option from the **Functions** section.

1. In the **Functions** pane, select the **+ Add** button.

1.  In the **New Function** popup dialog, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Within the **Templates** tab, select **HTTP trigger**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **New Function** text box and then enter **FileParser**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **Authorization** text box and then select **Anonymous**.

    1.  Select **Create Function**.

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Code + Test** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the function editor, find the example function script:

    ```
    #r "Newtonsoft.Json"

    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives;
    using Newtonsoft.Json;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req, ILogger log)
    {
        log.LogInformation("C# HTTP trigger function processed a request.");

        string name = req.Query["name"];

        string requestBody = await new StreamReader(req.Body).ReadToEndAsync();
        dynamic data = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject(requestBody);
        name = name ?? data?.name;

        string responseMessage = string.IsNullOrEmpty(name)
            ? "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name in the query string or in the request body for a personalized response."
                    : $"Hello, {name}. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully.";

                return new OkObjectResult(responseMessage);
    }
    ```

1.  **Delete** all the example code, and then in the function editor, copy and paste the following placeholder function:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req)
    {
        return new OkObjectResult("Test Successful");
    }
    ```

1.  Select **Save** to persist your changes to the function code.

1.  Select **Test/Run**.

1.  In the popup dialog that appears, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Input** tab, select **Run**.

    1.  In the **Output** tab, observe the output message of "Test Successful".

#### Task 3: Test the Key Vault-derived application setting

1.  Delete the existing code within the **Run** method of the script.

1.  Observe the **Run** method, which should now include:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req)
    {

    }
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to get the value of the **StorageConnectionString** application setting by using the **Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable** method:

    ```
    string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("StorageConnectionString");
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to return the value of the *connectionString* variable by using the **OkObjectResult** class constructor:
   
    ```
    return new OkObjectResult(connectionString);
    ```
    
1.  Observe the **Run** method, which should now include:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req)
    {
        string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("StorageConnectionString");
        return new OkObjectResult(connectionString);
    }
    ```

1.  Select **Save** to persist your changes to the function code.

1.  Select **Test/Run**.

1.  In the popup dialog that appears, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Input** tab, select **Run**.

    1.  In the **Output** tab, observe the output connection string returned from the function.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used a service identity to read the value of a secret stored in Key Vault and returned that value as the result of an function app.

