### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Open Azure Cloud Shell

1.  In the portal, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is represented by a greater than sign (\>) and underscore character (\_).

1.  If this is your first time opening Cloud Shell using your subscription, you can use the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell Wizard** to configure Cloud Shell. Perform the following actions in the wizard:
    
    -   When a dialog box prompts you to create a new storage account to begin using the shell, accept the default settings, and then select **Create storage**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for Cloud Shell to finish its initial setup procedures before continuing with the lab. If you don't notice the **Cloud Shell** configuration options, this is most likely because you're using an existing subscription with this course's labs. The labs are written with the presumption that you're using a new subscription.

1.  In Azure portal, at the **Cloud Shell** command prompt enter the following command, and then select Enter to get the version of the Azure Command-Line Interface (Azure CLI) tool:

    ```
    az --version
    ```

#### Task 3: View the Microsoft.EventGrid provider registration

1.  At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt in the portal, perform the following actions:

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of subgroups and commands at the root level of the Azure CLI:

        ```
        az --help
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of the commands that are available for resource providers:

        ```
        az provider --help
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to list all currently registered providers:

        ```
        az provider list
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to list just the namespaces of the currently registered providers:

        ```
        az provider list --query "[].namespace"
        ```

    1.  Review the list of currently registered providers. Notice that the **Microsoft.EventGrid** provider is currently included in the list of providers.

1.  Close the Cloud Shell pane.

#### Task 4: Create a custom Event Grid topic

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  On the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Event Grid**, and then select Enter.

1.  On the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Event Grid Topic** result.

1.  On the **Event Grid Topic** blade, select **Create**.

1.  On the **Create Topic** blade, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **hrtopic*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **PubSubEvents**, and then select **OK**.

    1.  From the **Location** drop-down list, select the **(US) East US** region.

    1.  From the **Event Schema** drop-down list, select **Event Grid Schema**, and then select **Create**.
  
    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the topic before you continue with the lab. You'll receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Task 5: Deploy the Azure Event Grid viewer to a web app

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  On the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Web**, and then select Enter.

1.  On the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Web App** result.

1.  On the **Web App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  On the second **Web App** blade, find the tabs on the blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new web app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  On the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **PubSubEvents**.

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **eventviewer*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Publish** section, select **Docker Container**.

    1.  In the **Operating System** section, select **Linux**.

    1.  From the **Region** drop-down list, select the **East US** region.

    1.  In the **Linux Plan (East US)** section, select **Create new**. 

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter the value **EventPlan**, and then select **OK**.

    1.  Leave the **SKU and size** section set to its default value.

    1.  Select **Next: Docker**.

1.  On the **Docker** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  From the **Options** drop-down list, select **Single Container**.

    1.  From the **Image Source** drop-down list, select **Docker Hub**.

    1.  From the **Access Type** drop-down list, select **Public**.

    1.  In the **Image and tag** text box, enter **microsoftlearning/azure-event-grid-viewer:latest**.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the web app using your specified configuration. 
  
    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the web app before you continue with the lab. You'll receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created the Event Grid topic and a web app that you will use throughout the remainder of the lab.

