### Exercise 1: Creating database resources in Azure

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, browse to the Azure portal ([portal.azure.com](https://portal.azure.com)).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you will be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure SQL Database server resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  From the **All services** blade, select **SQL servers**.

1.  From the **SQL servers** blade, find your list of SQL server instances.

1.  From the **SQL servers** blade, select **Add**.

1.  From the **Create SQL Database Server** blade, observe the tabs from the blade, such as **Basics**, **Networking**, and **Additional settings**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new Azure SQL Database server. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

    1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** drop-down list set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **PolyglotData**, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  In the **Server name** text box, enter **polysqlsrvr*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Location** drop-down list, select **(US) East US**.
    
    1.  In the **Server admin login** text box, enter **testuser**.
    
    1.  In the **Password** text box, enter **TestPa55w.rd**.
    
    1.  In the **Confirm password** text box, enter **TestPa55w.rd** again.

    1.  Select **Next: Networking**.

1.  From the **Networking** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Allow Azure services and resources to access this server** section, select **Yes**.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the SQL Database server by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: At this point in the lab, we are only creating the Azure SQL logical server. We will create the Azure SQL database instance later in the lab.

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create an Azure Cosmos DB account resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  From the **All services** blade, select **Azure Cosmos DB**.

1.  From the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, find your list of Azure Cosmos DB instances.

1.  From the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, select **Add**.

1.  From the **Create Azure Cosmos DB Account** blade, observe the tabs from the blade, such as **Basics**, **Network**, and **Tags**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new Azure Cosmos DB account. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** list set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **PolyglotData** from the list.
    
    1.  In the **AccountName** text box, enter **polycosmos*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **API** drop-down list, select **Core (SQL)**.

    1.  In the **Notebooks (Preview)** section, select **Off**.

    1.  In the **Apply Free Tier Discount** section, select **Do Not Apply**.
    
    1.  In the **Location** drop-down list, select the **(US) East US** region.
    
    1.  In the **Account Type** section, select **Non-Production**.
    
    1.  In the **Multi-region Writes** section, select **Disable**.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the Azure Cosmos DB account by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **PolyglotData** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **PolyglotData** blade, select the **polycosmos*[yourname]*** Azure Cosmos DB account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Azure Cosmos DB account** blade, find the **Settings** section from the blade, and then select the **Keys** link.

1.  In the Keys pane, record the value in the **PRIMARY CONNECTION STRING** text box. You'll use this value later in this lab.

#### Task 4: Create an Azure Storage account resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  From the **All services** blade, select **Storage Accounts**.

1.  From the **Storage accounts** blade, find your list of Storage instances.

1.  From the **Storage accounts** blade, select **Add**.

1.  From the **Create storage account** blade, observe the tabs from the blade, such as **Basics**, **Advanced**, and **Tags**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new Azure Storage account. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** list set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **PolyglotData** from the list.
    
    1.  In the **Storage account name** text box, enter **polystor*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Location** drop-down list, select the **(US) East US** region.
    
    1.  In the **Performance** section, select **Standard**.
    
    1.  In the **Account kind** drop-down list, select **StorageV2 (general purpose v2)**.
    
    1.  In the **Replication** drop-down list, select **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**.
    
    1.  In the **Access tier (default)** section, ensure that **Hot** is selected.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the storage account by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created all the Azure resources that you'll need for a polyglot data solution.

