### Exercise 2: Configure Content Delivery Network and endpoints

#### Task 1: Open Azure Cloud Shell

1.  In the portal, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is represented by a greater than sign () and underscore character (\_).

1.  If this is your first time opening Cloud Shell using your subscription, you can use the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell Wizard** to configure Cloud Shell for first-time usage. Perform the following actions in the wizard:
    
    -   A dialog box prompts you to create a new storage account to begin using the shell. Accept the default settings, and then select **Create storage**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for Cloud Shell to finish its initial setup procedures before moving forward with the lab. If you don't notice the **Cloud Shell** configuration options, this is most likely because you're using an existing subscription with this course's labs. The labs are written with the presumption that you're using a new subscription.

1.  At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt in the portal, enter the following command, and then select Enter to get the version of the Azure Command-Line Interface (Azure CLI) tool:

    ```
    az --version
    ```

#### Task 2: Register the Microsoft.CDN provider

1.  At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt in the portal, perform the following actions:

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of subgroups and commands at the root level of the Azure CLI:

        ```
        az --help
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of the commands that are available for resource providers:

        ```
        az provider --help
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to list all currently registered providers:

        ```
        az provider list
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to list just the namespaces of the currently registered providers:

        ```
        az provider list --query "[].namespace"
        ```

    1.  Observe the list of currently registered providers. The **Microsoft.CDN** provider isn't currently in the list of providers.

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get the required flags to register a new provider:

        ```
        az provider register --help
        ```

    1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to register the **Microsoft.CDN** namespace with your current subscription:

        ```
        az provider register --namespace Microsoft.CDN
        ```

1.  Close the Cloud Shell pane in the portal.

#### Task 3: Create a Content Delivery Network profile

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  On the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **CDN**, and then select Enter.

1.  On the **Everything** search results blade, select the **CDN** result.

1.  On the **CDN** blade, select **Create**.

1.  On the **CDN profile** blade, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **contentdeliverynetwork**.
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.

    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **MarketingContent**.
    
    1.  Leave the **Resource group location** drop-down list set to its default value.

    1.  In the **Pricing tier** drop-down list, select **Standard Akamai**.

    1.  Ensure that the **Create a new CDN endpoint now** check box is cleared.

    1.  Select **Create**.
  
    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the CDN profile before you move forward with the lab. You'll receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Task 4: Configure Storage containers

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MarketingContent** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **MarketingContent** blade, select the **contenthost*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Storage account** blade, select the **Containers** link in the **Blob service** section.

1.  In the **Containers** section, select **+ Container**.

1.  In the **New container** pop-up window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **media**.
    
    1.  In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select **Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)**, 
    
    1.  Select **OK**.

1.  Back in the **Containers** section, select **+ Container** again.

1.  In the **New container** pop-up window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **video**.
    
    1.  In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select **Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)**, 
    
    1.  Select **OK**.

1.  Observe the updated list of containers.

#### Task 5: Create Content Delivery Network endpoints

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **MarketingContent** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **MarketingContent** blade, select the **contentdeliverynetwork** CDN profile that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **CDN profile** blade, select **+ Endpoint**.

1.  In the **Add an endpoint** pop-up dialog box, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **cdnmedia*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Origin type** drop-down list, select **Storage**.

    1.  In the **Origin hostname** drop-down list, select the **contenthost*[yourname]*.blob.core.windows.net** option for the Storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

    1.  In the **Origin path** text box, enter **/media**.

    1.  Leave the **Origin host header** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Leave the **Protocol** and **Origin port** sections set to their default values.

    1.  In the **Optimized for** drop-down list, select **General web delivery**.

    1.  Select **Add**.

1.  Back on the **CDN profile** blade, select **+ Endpoint** again.

1.  In the **Add an endpoint** pop-up dialog box, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **cdnvideo*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Origin type** drop-down list, select **Storage**.

    1.  In the **Origin hostname** drop-down list, select the **contenthost*[yourname]*.blob.core.windows.net** option for the Storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

    1.  In the **Origin path** text box, enter **/video**.

    1.  Leave the **Origin host header** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Leave the **Protocol** and **Origin port** sections set to their default values.

    1.  In the **Optimized for** drop-down list, select **Video on demand media streaming**.

    1.  Select **Add**.

1.  Back on the **CDN profile** blade, select **+ Endpoint** again.

1.  In the **Add an endpoint** pop-up dialog box, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **cdnweb*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Origin type** drop-down list, select **Web App**.

    1.  In the **Origin hostname** drop-down list, select the **landingpage*[yourname]*.azurewebsites.net** option for the Web App that you created earlier in this lab.

    1.  Leave the **Origin path** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Leave the **Origin host header** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Leave the **Protocol** and **Origin port** sections set to their default values.

    1.  In the **Optimized for** drop-down list, select **General web delivery**.

    1.  Select **Add**.

#### Review

In this exercise, you registered the resource provider for Content Delivery Network and then used the provider to create both CDN profile and endpoint resources.

