### Exercise 4: Queue new messages by using .NET

#### Task 1: Write code to create queue messages

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, open the **Program.cs** file.

1.  On the code editor tab for the **Program.cs** file, find the existing **Main** method.

1.  Within the **Main** method, add a new line of code to render a header for the "New Messages" section:

    ```
    Console.WriteLine($"---New Messages---");
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, perform the following actions to create and send a message asynchronously:

    1.  Add the following line of code to create a new string variable named *greeting* with a value of **Hi, Developer!**:

        ```
        string greeting = "Hi, Developer!";        
        ```

    1.  Add the following line of code to invoke the **SendMessageAsync** method of the **QueueClient** class by using the *greeting* variable as a parameter

        ```
        await client.SendMessageAsync(greeting);        
        ```

    1.  Add the following line of code to render the content of the message that you sent:

        ```
        Console.WriteLine($"Sent Message:\t{greeting}");        
        ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        \\ Existing code removed for brevity
        
        Console.WriteLine($"---New Messages---");
        string greeting = "Hi, Developer!";
        await client.SendMessageAsync(greeting);
        
        Console.WriteLine($"Sent Message:\t{greeting}");
    }
    ```

1.  **Save** the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Solution\\MessageProcessor** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The content of the new message that you sent should be in the output.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: View queued messages by using Storage Explorer

1.  Return to Storage Explorer, and then find and expand the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account, find and expand the **Queues** node.

1.  In the **Queues** node, open the **messagequeue** queue that you created earlier in this lab by using .NET code.

1.  Observe the single new message in the list of messages in the queue.

    > **Note**: You might need to refresh the queue.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created new messages in the queue by using the .NET library for Storage queues.

