### Exercise 3: Add messages to the queue 

#### Task 1: Write code to access queue messages

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to render a header for the "Existing Messages" section:

    ```
    Console.WriteLine($"---Existing Messages---");
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, perform the following actions to create variables that will be used when retrieving queue messages:

    1.  Add the following line of code to create a variable of type **int** named *batchSize* with a value of **10**:

        ```
        int batchSize = 10;
        ```

    1.  Add the following line of code to create a variable of type **TimeSpan** named *visibilityTimeout* with a value of **2.5 seconds**:

        ```
        TimeSpan visibilityTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(2.5d);
        ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, perform the following actions to retrieve a batch of messages asynchronously from the queue service:

    1.  Add the following line of code to invoke the **ReceiveMessagesAsync** asynchronous method of the **QueueClient** class, passing in the *batchSize* and *visibilityTimeout* variables as parameters:

        ```
        client.ReceiveMessagesAsync(batchSize, visibilityTimeout);
        ```

    1.  Update the previous line of code by adding more code to process the expression asynchronously by using the **await** keyword:

        ```
        await client.ReceiveMessagesAsync(batchSize, visibilityTimeout);
        ```

    1.  Update the previous line of code by adding more code to store the result of the expression in a new variable named *messages* of type **[Response<QueueMessage[]>](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.response-1)**:

        ```
        Response<QueueMessage[]> messages = await client.ReceiveMessagesAsync(batchSize, visibilityTimeout);
        ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, perform the following actions to iterate over and render the properties of each message:

    1.  Add the following line of code to create a **foreach** loop that iterates over each message that's stored in the **[Value](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.response-1.value)** property of the *messages* variable of type **[QueueMessage[]](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/azure.storage.queues.models.queuemessage)**:

        ```
        foreach(QueueMessage message in messages?.Value)
        {
        }
        ```

    1.  Within the **foreach** loop, add another line of code to render the **MessageId** and **MessageText** properties of each **QueueMessage** instance:
    
        ```
        Console.WriteLine($"[{message.MessageId}]\t{message.MessageText}");
        ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        \\ Existing code removed for brevity

        Console.WriteLine($"---Existing Messages---");
        int batchSize = 10;
        TimeSpan visibilityTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(2.5d);
        
        Response<QueueMessage[]> messages = await client.ReceiveMessagesAsync(batchSize, visibilityTimeout);

        foreach(QueueMessage message in messages?.Value)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"[{message.MessageId}]\t{message.MessageText}");
        }
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Solution\\MessageProcessor** folder.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: Test message queue access

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Solution\\MessageProcessor** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The output indicates that no messages are in the queue.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **AsyncProcessor** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **AsyncProcessor** blade, select the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Storage account** blade, select **Overview**. 

1.  In the **Overview** section, select **Open in Explorer**.

1.  In the **Azure Storage Explorer** window, select **Open Azure Storage Explorer**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time opening Storage Explorer by using the portal, you might be prompted to allow the portal to open these types of links in the future. You should accept the prompt.

1.  In the **Azure Storage Explorer** application, you will notice a prompt to sign in to your Azure account. Sign in by performing the following actions:

    1.  In the popup dialog, select **Sign in**.

    1.  In the **Connect to Azure Storage** window, select **Add an Azure Account**, in the **Azure environment** list select **Azure**, and then select **Next**.

    1.  In the **Sign in to your account** popup window, enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

    1.  Still within the **Sign in to your account** popup window, enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    1.  In the **ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT** pane, select **Apply**.

    1.  Observe that you are returned back to the **EXPLORER** pane with your subscription information populated.

1.  From the **Azure Storage Explorer** application, in the **EXPLORER** pane, find and expand the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  Within the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account, find and expand the **Queues** node.

1.  In the **Queues** node, open the **messagequeue** queue that you created earlier in this lab by using .NET code.

1.  On the **messagequeue** tab, select **Add Message**.

1.  In the **Add Message** pop-up window, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Message text** text box, enter the value **Hello World**.

    1.  In the **Expires in** text box, enter the value **12**.

    1.  In the **Expires in** drop-down list, select **Hours**.

    1.  Ensure that the **Encode message body in Base 64** check box isn't selected.

    1.  Select **OK**.

1.  Return to the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Solution\\MessageProcessor** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The output includes the new message that you created.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 3: Delete queued messages

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, open the **Program.cs** file.

1.  On the code editor tab for the **Program.cs** file, find the existing **foreach** loop within the **Main** method:

    ```
    foreach(QueueMessage message in messages?.Value)
    {
        Console.WriteLine($"[{message.MessageId}]\t{message.MessageText}");
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **foreach** loop, add a new line of code to invoke the **DeleteMessageAsync** method of the **QueueMessage** class, passing in the **MessageId** and **PopReceipt** properties of the *message* variable:

    ```
    await client.DeleteMessageAsync(message.MessageId, message.PopReceipt);
    ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        \\ Existing code removed for brevity
        
        foreach(QueueMessage message in messages?.Value)
        {
            Console.WriteLine($"[{message.MessageId}]\t{message.MessageText}");
            await client.DeleteMessageAsync(message.MessageId, message.PopReceipt);
        }
    }
    ```

1.  **Save** the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Solution\\MessageProcessor** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The message that you created earlier in the lab still exists because it hasn't been deleted previously.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

1.  Return Storage Explorer, and then find and expand the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **asyncstor*[yourname]*** storage account, find and expand the **Queues** node.

1.  In the **Queues** node, open the **messagequeue** queue that you created earlier in this lab by using .NET code.

1.  Observe the empty list of messages in the queue.

    > **Note**: You might need to refresh the queue.

#### Review

In this exercise, you read and deleted existing messages from the Storage queue by using the .NET library.

