### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create an Azure Storage account

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  On the **All services** blade, select **Storage Accounts**.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, get your list of storage account instances.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, select **Add**.

1.  On the **Create storage account** blade, observe the tabs on the blade, such as **Basics**, **Tags**, and **Review + Create**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new storage account. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  Select the **Basics** tab, and then in the tab area, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **Serverless**, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  In the **Storage account name** text box, enter **funcstor*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Location** list, select the **(US) East US** region.
    
    1.  In the **Performance** section, select **Standard**.
    
    1.  In the **Account kind** list, select **StorageV2 (general purpose v2)**.
    
    1.  In the **Replication** list, select **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**.
    
    1.  In the **Access tier (default)** section, ensure that **Hot** is selected.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you specified in the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the storage account by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: On the **Deployment** blade, wait for the creation task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create an Azure Functions app

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Create a resource** link.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Function**, and then select Enter.

1.  On the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Function App** result.

1.  On the **Function App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  Find the tabs on the **Function App** blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new function app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  On the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Use existing**, and then select **Serverless** in the list.
    
    1.  In the **Function app name** text box, enter **funclogic*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Publish** section, select **Code**.

    1.  In the **Runtime stack** drop-down list, select **.NET Core**.

    1.  In the **Version** drop-down list, select **3.1**.

    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **East US** region.
    
    1.  Select **Next: Hosting**.

1.  On the **Hosting** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Storage account** drop-down list, select the **funcstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

    1.  In the **Operating System** section, select **Windows**.

    1.  In the **Plan type** drop-down list, select the **Consumption** option.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the function app by using your specified configuration. 

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created all the resources that you'll use for this lab.

