### Exercise 2: Build a front-end web application by using Azure Web Apps

#### Task 1: Create a web app

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Web**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Web App** result.

1.  From the **Web App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  From the second **Web App** blade, find the tabs from the blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new web app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select **ManagedPlatform**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **imgweb*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Publish** section, select **Code**.

    1.  In the **Runtime stack** drop-down list, select **.NET Core 3.1 (LTS)**.

    1.  In the **Operating System** section, select **Windows**.

    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **East US** region.

    1.  In the **Windows Plan (East US)** section, select **ManagedPlan (S1)**.

    1.  Select **Next: Monitoring**.

1.  From the **Monitoring** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Enable Application Insights** section, select **No**.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the web app by using your specified configuration. Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Task 2: Configure a web app

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **ManagedPlatform** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **ManagedPlatform** blade, select the **imgweb*[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Web App** blade, in the **Settings** section, select the **Configuration** link.

1.  In the **Configuration** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select the **Application settings** tab, and then select **New application setting**.
    
    1.  In the **Add/Edit application setting** pop-up dialog, in the **Name** text box, enter **ApiUrl**.
    
    1.  In the **Value** text box, enter the web app URL that you copied earlier in this lab.

        > **Note**: Make sure you include the protocol, such as **https://**, in the URL that you copy into the **Value** text box for this application setting.
    
    1.  Leave the **Deployment slot setting** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Select **OK** to close the pop-up dialog, and then return to the **Configuration** section.
    
    1.  Select **Save** from the blade to persist your settings.
  
    Wait for your application settings to persist before you move forward with the lab.

#### Task 3: Deploy an ASP.NET web application to Web Apps

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Visual Studio Code** icon.

1.  From the **File** menu, select **Open Folder**.

1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\01\\Starter\\Web**, and then select **Select Folder**.

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, expand the **Pages** folder, and then select the **Index.cshtml.cs** file to open the file in the editor.

1.  In the editor, in the **IndexModel** class on line 30, observe the **OnGetAsync** method and the code used to retrieve the list of images from the API.

1.  In the **IndexModel** class on line 41, observe the **OnPostAsync** method and the code used to stream an uploaded image to the back-end API.

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Terminal** icon.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to sign in to the Azure CLI:

    ```
    az login
    ```

1.  In the browser window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.
    
    1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

1.	Return to the currently open **Command Prompt** window. Wait for the sign-in process to finish.

1.	Enter the following command, and then select Enter to list all the apps in your **ManagedPlatform** resource group:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform
    ```

1.	Enter the following command, and then select Enter to find the apps that have the **imgweb\*** prefix:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform --query "[?starts_with(name, 'imgweb')]"
    ```

1.	Enter the following command, and then select Enter to render only the name of the single app that has the **imgweb\*** prefix:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group ManagedPlatform --query "[?starts_with(name, 'imgweb')].{Name:name}" --output tsv
    ```

1.	Enter the following command, and then select Enter to change the current directory to the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\01\\Starter\\Web** directory that contains the lab files:

    ```
    cd F:\Allfiles\Labs\01\Starter\Web\
    ```

1.	Enter the following command, and then select Enter to deploy the **web.zip** file to the web app that you created earlier in this lab:

    ```
    az webapp deployment source config-zip --resource-group ManagedPlatform --src web.zip --name <name-of-your-web-app>
    ```

    > **Note**: Replace the *\<name-of-your-web-app\>* placeholder with the name of the web app that you created earlier in this lab. You recently queried this app’s name in the previous steps.
  
  	Wait for the deployment to complete before you move forward with this lab.

1.	In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.	From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **ManagedPlatform** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.	From the **ManagedPlatform** blade, select the **imgweb*[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.	From the **Web App** blade, select **Browse**.

1.	Observe the list of images in the gallery. The gallery should list a single image that was uploaded to Storage earlier in the lab.

1.	From the **Contoso Photo Gallery** webpage, find the **Upload a new image** section, and then perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select **Browse**.
    
    1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\01\\Starter\\Images**, select the **bahnmi.jpg** file, and then select **Open**.
    
    1.  Select **Upload**.

1.	Observe that the list of gallery images has updated with your new image.

    > **Note**: In some rare cases, you might need to refresh your browser window to retrieve the new image.

1.	Return to your browser window with the Azure portal.

1.  Close the currently running Visual Studio Code and Windows Terminal applications.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created an Azure web app and deployed an existing web application’s code to the resource in the cloud.

