### Exercise 3: Use Azure API Management as a proxy for Logic Apps

#### Task 1: Create a new product

1.  In the Azure portal navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **AutomatedWorkflow** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **AutomatedWorkflow** blade, select the **prodapim*[yourname]*** API Management resource that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **API Management Service** blade, in the **API Management** section, select **Products**.

1.  In the **Products** section, select **+ Add**.

1.  In the **Add product** dialog box, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Display name** text box, enter **Free**.

    1.  In the **Id** text box, enter **free**.

    1.  In the **Description** text box, enter **Free tier for anonymous use**.

    1.  In the **State** section, select **Published**.

    1.  Ensure that the **Requires subscription** check box is cleared.

    1.  Select **Create**.

#### Task 2: Create an API integrated with Logic Apps

1.  On the **API Management Service** blade, in the **API Management** section, select **APIs**.

1.  In the **Add a new API** section, select **Logic App**.

1.  In the **Create from Logic App** dialog box, perform the following actions:

    1.  Select **Full**.

    1.  In the **Logic App** section, select **Browse**. 
    
    1.  In the **Select Logic App to import** dialog box, select the **prodflow*[yourname]*** Logic App that you created earlier in this lab, and then select **Select**.
    
    1.  In the **Display name** text box, enter **Metadata Lookup**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **metadata-lookup**.

    1.  In the **Description** text box, enter **Lookup metadata JSON files**.

    1.  Leave the **API URL suffix** text box empty.

    1.  In the **Products** list, select **Free**.

    1.  Select **Create**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for the new API to finish being created.

#### Task 3: Test the API operation

1.  From the **Design** tab, select **Test**.

1.  On the **Test** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  Select the single **GET** operation.

    1.  Copy the value of the **Request URL** field. (You will use this value later in the lab.)

    1.  Select **Send**.

    1.  In the **HTTP response** section, observe the JSON results of the test request.

#### Task 4: Validate the end-to-end solution using httprepl

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Terminal** icon.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to start the **httprepl** tool setting the base URI to the value of the **Request URL** for the API operation that you copied earlier in this lab.

    ```
    httprepl <api-operation-request-url>
    ```

    > **Note**: For example, if your **URL** is **https://prodapimstudent.azure-api.net/manual/paths/invoke**, your command would be **httprepl https://prodapimstudent.azure-api.net/manual/paths/invoke**.

1.  Observe the error message displayed by the httprepl tool. This message occurs because the tool is searching for a Swagger definition file to use to "traverse" the API. Because your Logic App does not produce a Swagger definition file, you will need to traverse the API manually.

1.  Within the tool prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the **get** command against the API endpoint:

    ```
    get
    ```

1.  Observe the JSON response content, which should now include:

    ```
    [ 
        "item_00.json",
        "item_01.json",
        "item_02.json",
        "item_03.json",
        "item_04.json"
    ]
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to exit the **httprepl** application:

    ```
    exit
    ```

1.  Close the currently running Windows Terminal application.

1.	Return to your browser window with  Azure portal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used Azure API Management as a proxy to trigger your Logic App workflow.

