### Exercise 2: Configure secrets and identities

#### Task 1: Configure a system-assigned managed service identity

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securefunc*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Identity** option from the **Settings** section.

1.  From the **Identity** pane, find the **System assigned** tab, and then perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Status** section, select **On**, and then select **Save**.
    
    1.  In the confirmation dialog box, select **Yes**.

    > **Note**: Wait for the system-assigned managed identity to be created before you move forward with this lab.

#### Task 2: Create a Key Vault secret

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securevault*[yourname]*** key vault that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Key Vault** blade, select the **Secrets** link in the **Settings** section.

1.  In the **Secrets** pane, select **Generate/Import**.

1.  From the **Create a secret** blade, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Upload options** drop-down list, select **Manual**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **storagecredentials**.
    
    1.  In the **Value** text box, enter the storage account connection string that you recorded earlier in this lab.
    
    1.  Leave the **Content Type** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  Leave the **Set activation date** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  Leave the **Set expiration date** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Enabled** section, select **Yes**, and then select **Create**.
    
    > **Note**: Wait for the secret to be created before you move forward with this lab.

1.  Back in the Secrets pane, select the **storagecredentials** item in the list.

1.  In the Versions pane, select the latest version of the **storagecredentials** secret.

1.  In the Secret Version pane, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Find the metadata for the latest version of the secret.
    
    1.  Select **Show secret value** to find the value of the secret.
    
    1.  Record the value of the **Secret Identifier** text box because you'll use this later in the lab.

    > **Note**: You are recording the value of the **Secret Identifier** text box, not the **Secret Value** text box.

#### Task 3: Configure a Key Vault access policy

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securevault*[yourname]*** key vault that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Key Vault** blade, select the **Access policies** link in the **Settings** section.

1.  In the Access policies pane, select **Add Access Policy**.

1.  From the **Add access policy** blade, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select the **Select principal** link.
    
    1.  From the **Principal** blade, find and then select the service principal named **securefunc*[yourname]***, and then select **Select**.

        > **Note**: The system-assigned managed identity you created earlier in this lab will have the same name as the Azure Function resource.
    
    1.  Leave the **Key permissions** list set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Secret permissions** drop-down list, select the **GET** permission.
    
    1.  Leave the **Certificate permissions** list set to its default value.
    
    1.  Leave the **Authorized application** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  Select **Add**.

1.  Back in the Access policies pane, select **Save**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for your changes to the access policies to save before you move forward with this lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a server-assigned managed service identity for your function app and then gave that identity the appropriate permissions to get the value of a secret in your key vault. Finally, you created a secret that you'll use within your function app.

