### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create a Storage account

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  On the **All services** blade, select **Storage Accounts**.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, get your list of storage account instances.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, select **Add**.

1.  On the **Create storage account** blade, observe the tabs on the blade, such as **Basics**, **Tags**, and **Review + Create**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new storage account. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  Select the **Basics** tab, and then in the tab area, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **AsyncProcessor**, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  In the **Storage account name** text box, enter **asyncstor*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Location** list, select the **(US) East US** region.
    
    1.  In the **Performance** section, select **Standard**.
    
    1.  In the **Account kind** list, select **StorageV2 (general purpose v2)**.
    
    1.  In the **Replication** list, select **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**.
    
    1.  In the **Access tier (default)** section, ensure that **Hot** is selected.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you specified in the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the storage account by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: On the **Deployment** blade, wait for the creation task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

1.	Select the **Go to resource** button on the **Deployment** blade to go to the newly created storage account.

1.	On the **Storage account** blade, find the **Settings** section, and then select **Access keys**.

1.	On the **Access keys** blade, select any one of the keys, and then record the value of either of the **Connection string** boxes. You'll use this value later in this lab.

    > **Note**: It doesn't matter which connection string you choose. They are interchangeable.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a new Azure Storage account that you'll use through the remainder of the lab.

