### Exercise 4: Clean up your subscription 

#### Task 1: Open Azure Cloud Shell and list resource groups

1.  In Azure portal, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is represented by a greater than sign (\>) and underscore character (\_).

1.  If this is your first time opening Cloud Shell using your subscription, you can use the **Welcome to Azure Cloud Shell Wizard** to configure Cloud Shell for first-time usage. Perform the following actions in the wizard:
    
    1.  A dialog box prompts you to create a new storage account to begin using the shell. Accept the default settings, and then select **Create storage**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for Cloud Shell to finish its initial setup procedures before moving forward with the lab. If you don't notice the Cloud Shell configuration options, this is most likely because you're using an existing subscription with this course's labs. The labs are written with the presumption that you're using a new subscription.

#### Task 2: Delete resource groups

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to delete the **AutomatedWorkflow** resource group:

    ```
    az group delete --name AutomatedWorkflow --no-wait --yes
    ```

1.  Close the Cloud Shell pane.

#### Task 3: Close the active applications

-   Close the currently running Microsoft Edge application.

#### Review

In this exercise, you cleaned up your subscription by removing the resource groups used in this lab.
