### Exercise 2: Create a Docker container image and deploy it to Azure Container Registry

#### Task 1: Open the Cloud Shell and editor

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.  

    > **Note**: Wait for Cloud Shell to finish connecting to an instance before moving on with the lab.

1.  At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt in the portal, enter the following command, and then select Enter to move from the root directory to the **\~/clouddrive** directory:

    ```
    cd ~/clouddrive
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new directory named **ipcheck** in the **\~/clouddrive** directory:

    ```
    mkdir ipcheck
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to change the active directory from **\~/clouddrive** to **\~/clouddrive/ipcheck**:

    ```
    cd ~/clouddrive/ipcheck
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new .NET console application in the current directory:

    ```
    dotnet new console --output . --name ipcheck
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new file in the **\~/clouddrive/ipcheck** directory named **Dockerfile**:

    ```
    touch Dockerfile
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to open the embedded graphical editor in the context of the current directory:

    ```
    code .
    ```

#### Task 2: Create and test a .NET application

1.  In the graphical editor, find the FILES pane, and then open the **Program.cs** file to open it in the editor.

1.  Delete the entire contents of the **Program.cs** file.

1.  Copy and paste the following code into the **Program.cs** file:

    ```
    public class Program
    {
        public static void Main(string[] args)
        {        
            // Check if network is available
            if (System.Net.NetworkInformation.NetworkInterface.GetIsNetworkAvailable())
            {
                System.Console.WriteLine("Current IP Addresses:");

                // Get host entry for current hostname
                string hostname = System.Net.Dns.GetHostName();
                System.Net.IPHostEntry host = System.Net.Dns.GetHostEntry(hostname);
                
                // Iterate over each IP address and render their values
                foreach(System.Net.IPAddress address in host.AddressList)
                {
                    System.Console.WriteLine($"\t{address}");
                }
            }
            else
            {
                System.Console.WriteLine("No Network Connection");
            }
        }
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file by using the menu in the graphical editor or the Ctrl+S keyboard shortcut.  Don't close the graphical editor.

1.  Back at the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

1.  Find the results of the run. At least one IP address should be listed for the Cloud Shell instance.

1.  In the graphical editor, find the FILES pane of the editor, and then open the **Dockerfile** file to open it in the editor.

1.  Copy and paste the following code into the **Dockerfile** file:

    ```
    # Start using the .NET Core 2.2 SDK container image
    FROM mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/sdk:2.2-alpine AS build

    # Change current working directory
    WORKDIR /app

    # Copy existing files from host machine
    COPY . ./

    # Publish application to the "out" folder
    RUN dotnet publish --configuration Release --output out

    # Start container by running application DLL
    ENTRYPOINT ["dotnet", "out/ipcheck.dll"]
    ```

1.  Save the **Dockerfile** file by using the menu in the graphical editor or by using the Ctrl+S keyboard shortcut.

1.  Close the Cloud Shell pane in the portal.

#### Task 3: Create a Container Registry resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Create a resource** link.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box above the list of featured services.

1.  In the search box, enter **Container Registry**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Container Registry** result.

1.  From the **Container Registry** blade, select **Create**.

1.  From the **Create container registry** blade, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Registry name** text box, give your registry a globally unique name.

        >  **Note**: The blade will automatically check the name for uniqueness and inform you if you're required to choose a different name.

    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.

    1.  In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select the existing **ContainerCompute** option.

    1.  In the **Location** text box, select **East US**.

    1.  In the **SKU** drop-down list, select **Basic**.

    1.  Select **Create**.  

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

#### Task 4: Open Azure Cloud Shell and store Container Registry metadata

1.  In the portal, select the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.  

    > **Note**: Wait for Cloud Shell to finish connecting to an instance before moving forward with the lab.

1.  At the **Cloud Shell** command prompt in the portal, enter the following command, and then select Enter to get a list of all container registries in your subscription:

    ```
    az acr list
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    az acr list --query "max_by([], &creationDate).name" --output tsv
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    acrName=$(az acr list --query "max_by([], &creationDate).name" --output tsv)
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter:

    ```
    echo $acrName
    ```

#### Task 5: Deploy a Docker container image to Container Registry

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to change the active directory from **\~/** to **\~/clouddrive/ipcheck**:

    ```
    cd ~/clouddrive/ipcheck
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to get the contents of the current directory:

    ```
    dir
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to upload the source code to your container registry and build the container image as a Container Registry task:

    ```
    az acr build --registry $acrName --image ipcheck:latest .
    ```

    > **Note**: Wait for the build task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

1.  Close the Cloud Shell pane in the portal.

#### Task 6: Validate your container image in Container Registry

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **ContainerCompute** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **ContainerCompute** blade, select the container registry that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Container Registry** blade, find the **Services** section, and then select the **Repositories** link.

1.  In the **Repositories** section, select the **ipcheck** container image repository.

1.  From the **Repository** blade, select the **latest** tag.

1.  Find the metadata for the version of your container image with the **latest** tag.

    > **Note**: You can also select the **Run ID** link to find metadata about the build task.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a .NET console application to display a machine’s current IP address. You then added the **Dockerfile** file to the application so that it could be converted into a Docker container image. Finally, you deployed the container image to Container Registry.

