### Exercise 2: Create a function that's triggered by an HTTP request

#### Task 1: Create an HTTP-triggered function

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **Serverless** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Serverless** blade, select the **funclogic*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Functions** option from the **Functions** section.

1. In the **Functions** pane, select the **+ Add** button.

1.  In the **New Function** popup dialog, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Within the **Templates** tab, select **HTTP Trigger**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **New Function** text box and then enter **Echo**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **Authorization** text box and then select **Anonymous**.

    1.  Select **Create Function**.

#### Task 2: Write function code

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Code + Test** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the function editor, find the example **run.csx** function script:

    ```
    #r "Newtonsoft.Json"

    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives;
    using Newtonsoft.Json;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req, ILogger log)
    {
        log.LogInformation("C# HTTP trigger function processed a request.");

        string name = req.Query["name"];

        string requestBody = await new StreamReader(req.Body).ReadToEndAsync();
        dynamic data = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject(requestBody);
        name = name ?? data?.name;

        string responseMessage = string.IsNullOrEmpty(name)
            ? "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name in the query string or in the request body for a personalized response."
                    : $"Hello, {name}. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully.";

                return new OkObjectResult(responseMessage);
    }
    ```

1.  Delete all the example code.

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc** namespace:

    ```
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **System.Net** namespace:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    ```

1.  Add the following code block to create a new **public static** method named **Run** that returns a variable of type **IActionResult** and that also takes in variables of type **HttpRequest** and **ILogger** as parameters named *req* and *log*:

    ```
    public static IActionResult Run(HttpRequest req, ILogger log)
    {
    }
    ```

1.  In the **Run** method, enter the following line of code to render a fixed message:

    ```
    log.LogInformation("Received a request");
    ```

1.  Enter the following line of code to echo the body of the HTTP request as the HTTP response:

    ```
    return new OkObjectResult(req.Body);
    ```

1.  Observe the **run.csx** file, which should now include:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;

    public static IActionResult Run(HttpRequest req, ILogger log)
    {
        log.LogInformation("Received a request");

        return new OkObjectResult(req.Body);
    }
    ```

1.  Select **Save** to persist your changes to the function code.

#### Task 3: Test function run in the portal

1.  Select **Test/Run**.

1.  In the popup dialog that appears, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Input** tab, in the **Body** text box, enter the following JSON request body:

        ```
        {
            "message": "Hello, World!"
        }
        ```

    1.  In the **Input** tab, select **Run**.

    1.  In the **Output** tab, observe the results of the test run. The results should echo the original request body exactly.

#### Task 4: Get a base function URL

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **Serverless** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Serverless** blade, select the **funclogic*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **App Service** blade, copy the value of the **URL** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab.

#### Task 5: Test function run by using httprepl

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Terminal** icon.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to start the **httprepl** tool setting the base Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) to the value of the URL that you copied earlier in this lab.

    ```
    httprepl <function-app-url>
    ```

    > **Note**: For example, if your URL is **https://funclogicstudent.azurewebsites.net**, your command would be **httprepl https://funclogicstudent.azurewebsites.net**.

1.  Observe the error message displayed by the httprepl tool. This message occurs because the tool is searching for a Swagger definition file to use to "traverse" the API. Because your Logic App does not produce a Swagger definition file, you will need to traverse the API manually.

1.  At the tool prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to browse to the relative **api** directory:

    ```
    cd api
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to browse to the relative **echo** directory:

    ```
    cd echo
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the **post** command sending in an HTTP request body set to a numeric value of **3** by using the **\-\-content** option:

    ```
    post --content 3
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the **post** command sending in an HTTP request body set to a numeric value of **5** by using the **\-\-content** option:

    ```
    post --content 5
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the **post** command sending in an HTTP request body set to a string value of **Hello** by using the **\-\-content** option:

    ```
    post --content "Hello"
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the **post** command sending in an HTTP request body set to a JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) value of **{"msg": "Successful"}** by using the **\-\-content** option:

    ```
    post --content "{"msg": "Successful"}"
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to exit the **httprepl** application:

    ```
    exit
    ```

1.  Close the currently running Windows Terminal application.

1.	Return to the browser window with the Azure portal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a basic function that echoes the content sent via an HTTP POST request.

