### Exercise 2: Configure the Azure Storage SDK in a .NET project 

#### Task 1: Create a .NET project

1.  On the **Start** screen, select the **Visual Studio Code** tile.

1.  On the **File** menu, select **Open Folder**.

1.  In the **File Explorer** window that opens, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Starter\\MessageProcessor**, and then select **Select Folder**.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new .NET project named **MessageProcessor** in the current folder:

    ```
    dotnet new console --name MessageProcessor --output .
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet new** command will create a new **console** project in a folder with the same name as the project.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 12.0.0 of **Azure.Storage.Queues** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Azure.Storage.Queues --version 12.0.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Azure.Storage.Queues** package from NuGet. For more information, go to [Azure.Storage.Queues](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Queues/12.0.0).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: Write code to access Azure Storage

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, open the **Program.cs** file.

1.  On the code editor tab for the **Program.cs** file, delete all the code in the existing file.

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **Azure**, **Azure.Storage.Queues**, and **Azure.Storage.Queues.Models** namespaces from the **Azure.Storage.Queues** package imported from NuGet:

    ```
    using Azure;
    using Azure.Storage.Queues;
    using Azure.Storage.Queues.Models;
    ```
    
1.  Add the following lines of code to add **using** directives for the built-in namespaces that will be used in this file:

    ```
    using System;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    ```

1.  Enter the following code to create a new **Program** class:

    ```
    public class Program
    {
    }
    ``` 

1.  In the **Program** class, enter the following line of code to create a new string constant named **storageConnectionString**:

    ```
    private const string storageConnectionString = "";
    ```

1.  Update the **storageConnectionString** string constant by setting its value to the **Connection string** of the Storage account that you recorded earlier in this lab.

1.  In the **Program** class, enter the following line of code to create a new string constant named **queueName** with a value of **messagequeue**:

    ```
    private const string queueName = "messagequeue";
    ```

1.  In the **Program** class, enter the following code to create a new asynchronous **Main** method:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
    }
    ```

1.  Observe the **Program.cs** file, which should now include:

    ```
    using Azure;
    using Azure.Storage.Queues;
    using Azure.Storage.Queues.Models;
    using System;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;

    public class Program
    {
        private const string storageConnectionString = "<storage-connection-string>";
        private const string queueName = "messagequeue";

        public static async Task Main(string[] args)
        {
        }
    }
    ```

#### Task 3: Validate Azure Storage access

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to connect to the storage account by creating a new variable named *client* of type **QueueClient**:

    ```
    QueueClient client = new QueueClient(storageConnectionString, queueName);  
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to asynchronously create the queue if it doesn't already exist:

    ```        
    await client.CreateAsync();
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to render a header for the "Account Metadata" section:

    ```
    Console.WriteLine($"---Account Metadata---");
    ```
    
1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to render the Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) of the queue endpoint:

    ```
    Console.WriteLine($"Account Uri:\t{client.Uri}");
    ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        QueueClient client = new QueueClient(storageConnectionString, queueName);        
        await client.CreateAsync();

        Console.WriteLine($"---Account Metadata---");
        Console.WriteLine($"Account Uri:\t{client.Uri}");
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\11\\Solution\\MessageProcessor** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The output contains metadata for the queue endpoint.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Review

In this exercise, you configured your .NET project to access the Storage service and manipulate a queue made available through the service.

