### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.


#### Task 2: Create a Storage account

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  On the **All services** blade, select **Storage Accounts**.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, find your list of Storage instances.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, select **Add**.

1.  Find the tabs on the **Create storage account** blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new storage account. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  On the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.

    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **MarketingContent**, and then select **OK**.

    1.  In the **Storage account name** text box, enter **contenthost*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Location** drop-down list, select the **(US) East US** region.

    1.  In the **Performance** section, select **Standard**.

    1.  In the **Account kind** drop-down list, select **StorageV2 (general purpose v2)**.

    1.  In the **Replication** drop-down list, select **Read-access geo-redundant storage (RA-GRS)**.

    1.  In the **Access tier** section, ensure that **Hot** is selected.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the storage account by using your specified configuration. 

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.
    
#### Task 3: Create a web app by using Azure App Service

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  On the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Web**, and then select Enter.

1.  On the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Web App** result.

1.  On the **Web App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  On the second **Web App** blade, find the tabs on the blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new web app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  On the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **MarketingContent**.

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **landingpage*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Publish** section, select **Docker Container**.

    1.  In the **Operating System** section, select **Linux**.

    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **East US** region.

    1.  In the **Linux Plan (East US)** section, select **Create new**, enter the value **MarketingPlan** in the **Name** text box, and then select **OK**.

    1.  Leave the **SKU and size** section set to its default value.

    1.  Select **Next: Docker**.

1.  On the **Docker** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Options** drop-down list, select **Single Container**.

    1.  In the **Image Source** drop-down list, select **Docker Hub**.

    1.  In the **Access Type** drop-down list, select **Public**.

    1.  In the **Image and tag** text box, enter **microsoftlearning/edx-html-landing-page:latest**.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the web app by using your specified configuration. 

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MarketingContent** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **MarketingContent** blade, select the **landingpage*[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **App Service** blade, in the **Settings** category, select the **Properties** link.

1.  In the **Properties** section, record the value of the **URL** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created an Azure Storage account and an Azure Web App that you'll use later in this lab.

