### Exercise 4: Migrating SQL data to Azure Cosmos DB

#### Task 1: Create a migration project

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, access the shortcut menu or right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new .NET project named **AdventureWorks.Migrate** in a folder with the same name:

    ```
    dotnet new console --name AdventureWorks.Migrate
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet new** command will create a new **console** project in a folder with the same name as the project.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to add a reference to the existing **AdventureWorks.Models** project:

    ```
    dotnet add .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\AdventureWorks.Migrate.csproj reference .\AdventureWorks.Models\AdventureWorks.Models.csproj
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add reference** command will add a reference to the model classes contained in the **AdventureWorks.Models** project.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to add a reference to the existing **AdventureWorks.Context** project:

    ```
    dotnet add .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\AdventureWorks.Migrate.csproj reference .\AdventureWorks.Context\AdventureWorks.Context.csproj
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add reference** command will add a reference to the context classes contained in the **AdventureWorks.Context** project.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to switch your terminal context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 2.2.6 of **Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer --version 3.0.1
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer** package from **NuGet**. For more information, go to: [Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer/3.0.1).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 3.4.1 of **Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos --version 3.4.1
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos** package from **NuGet**. For more information, go to: [Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos/3.4.1).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: Create a .NET class 

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, expand the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** project.

1.  Open the **Program.cs** file.

1.  From the code editor tab for the **Program.cs** file, delete all the code in the existing file.

1.  Add the following lines of code to import the **AdventureWorks.Models** and **AdventureWorks.Context** namespaces from the referenced **AdventureWorks.Models** and **AdventureWorks.Context** projects:

    ```
    using AdventureWorks.Context;
    using AdventureWorks.Models;
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos** namespace from the **Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos** package imported from NuGet:

    ```
    using Microsoft.Azure.Cosmos;
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore** namespace from the **Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SqlServer** package imported from NuGet:

    ```
    using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
    ```

1.  Add the following lines of code to add **using** directives for the built-in namespaces that will be used in this file:

    ```
    using System;
    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using System.Linq;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    ```

1.  Enter the following code to create a new **Program** class:

    ```
    public class Program
    {
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **Program** class, enter the following line of code to create a new string constant named **sqlDBConnectionString**:

    ```
    private const string sqlDBConnectionString = "";
    ```

1.  Update the **sqlDBConnectionString** string constant by setting its value to the **ADO.NET (SQL Authentication) connection string** of the SQL database that you recorded earlier in this lab.

    > **Note**: It's important that you use your updated connection string here. The original connection string copied from the portal won't have the username and password necessary to connect to the SQL database.

1.  Within the **Program** class, enter the following line of code to create a new string constant named **cosmosDBConnectionString**: 

    ```
    private const string cosmosDBConnectionString = "";
    ```

1.  Update the **cosmosDBConnectionString** string constant by setting its value to the **PRIMARY CONNECTION STRING** of the Azure Cosmos DB account that you recorded earlier in this lab.

1.  Within the **Program** class, enter the following code to create a new asynchronous **Main** method:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following line of code to print an introductory message to the console:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync("Start Migration");
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, access the shortcut menu or right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to switch your terminal context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 3: Get SQL database records by using Entity Framework

1.  Within the **Main** method of the **Program** class within the **Program.cs** file, add the following line of code to create a new instance of the **AdventureWorksSqlContext** class, passing in the *sqlDBConnectionString* variable as the connection string value:

    ```
    using AdventureWorksSqlContext context = new AdventureWorksSqlContext(sqlDBConnectionString);
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following block of code to issue a language-integrated query (LINQ) to get all **Models** and child **Products** from the database and store them in an in-memory **List<>** collection:

    ```
    List<Model> items = await context.Models
        .Include(m => m.Products)
        .ToListAsync<Model>();
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following line of code to print the number of records imported from SQL Database:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Total Azure SQL DB Records: {items.Count}");
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, access the shortcut menu or right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to switch your terminal context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```
    
1.  At the command prompt,  enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\04\\Solution\\AdventureWorks\\AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 4: Insert items into Azure Cosmos DB

1.  Within the **Main** method of the **Program** class within the **Program.cs** file, add the following line of code to create a new instance of the **CosmosClient** class, passing in the *cosmosDBConnectionString* variable as the connection string value:

    ```
    using CosmosClient client = new CosmosClient(cosmosDBConnectionString);
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following line of code to create a new **database** named **Retail** if it doesn't already exist in the Azure Cosmos DB account:

    ```
    Database database = await client.CreateDatabaseIfNotExistsAsync("Retail");
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following block of code to create a new **container** named **Online** if it doesn't already exist in the Azure Cosmos DB account with a partition key path of **/Category** and a throughput of **1000** Request Units:

    ```
    Container container = await database.CreateContainerIfNotExistsAsync("Online",
        partitionKeyPath: $"/{nameof(Model.Category)}",
        throughput: 1000
    );
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following line of code to create an *int* variable named **count**:

    ```
    int count = 0;
    ```

1.  Within the **Main** method, add the following block of code to create a **foreach** loop that iterates over the objects in the **items** collection:

    ```
    foreach (var item in items)
    {
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **foreach** loop in the **Main** method, add the following line of code to **upsert** the object into the Azure Cosmos DB collection and save the result in a variable of type *ItemResponse<>* named **document**:

    ```
    ItemResponse<Model> document = await container.UpsertItemAsync<Model>(item);
    ```

1.  Within the **foreach** loop contained in the **Main** method, add the following line of code to print the activity ID of each upsert operation:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Upserted document #{++count:000} [Activity Id: {document.ActivityId}]");
    ```

1.  Back within the **Main** method (outside of the **foreach** loop), add the following line of code to print the number of documents exported to Azure Cosmos DB:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Total Azure Cosmos DB Documents: {count}");
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, access the shortcut menu or right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to switch your terminal context to the **AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Migrate\
    ```
    
1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\04\\Solution\\AdventureWorks\\AdventureWorks.Migrate** folder.

#### Task 5: Perform a migration

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet run** command will start the console application.

1.  Observe the various data that prints to the screen, including initial SQL record count, individual upsert activity identifiers, and final Azure Cosmos DB document count.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 6: Validate the migration

1.  Return to the **Microsoft Edge** browser window with the Azure portal.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and select the **PolyglotData** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **PolyglotData** blade, select the **polycosmos*[yourname]*** Azure Cosmos DB account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Azure Cosmos DB account** blade, find and select the **Data Explorer** link from the blade.

1.  In the Data Explorer pane, expand the **Retail** database node.

1.  Expand the **Online** container node, and then select **New SQL Query**.

    > **Note**: The label for this option might be hidden. You can get labels by hovering over the icons in the Data Explorer pane.

1.  From the query tab, enter the following text:

    ```
    SELECT * FROM models
    ```

1.  Select **Execute Query**, and then observe the list of JSON models that the query returns.

1.  Back in the query editor, replace the existing text with the following text:

    ```
    SELECT VALUE COUNT(1) FROM models
    ```

1.  Select **Execute Query**, and then observe the result of the **COUNT** aggregate operation.

1.  Return to the **Visual Studio Code** window.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used Entity Framework and the .NET SDK for Azure Cosmos DB to migrate data from SQL Database to Azure Cosmos DB.

