### Exercise 3: Deploy an Azure container instance 

#### Task 1: Enable the admin user in Container Registry

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **ContainerCompute** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **ContainerCompute** blade, select the container registry that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Container Registry** blade, select **Update**.

1.  From the **Update container registry** blade, perform the following actions:
    
    1.   In the **Admin user** section, select **Enable**.
    
    1.   Select **Save**.

    1.   Close the blade.
    
1.  Close the **Update container registry** blade.

#### Task 2: Automatically deploy a container image to an Azure container instance

1.  From the **Container Registry** blade, find the **Services** section, and then select the **Repositories** link.

1.  In the **Repositories** section, select the **ipcheck** container image repository.

1.  From the **Repository** blade, select the ellipsis menu associated with the **latest** tag entry.

1.  In the pop-up menu, select the **Run instance** link.

1.  From the **Create container instance** blade, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Container name** text box, enter **managedcompute**.
    
    1.  Leave the **Container image** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **OS type** section, select **Linux**.
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select **ContainerCompute**.
    
    1.  In the **Location** drop-down list, select **East US**.
    
    1.  In the **Number of cores** drop-down list, select **2**.
    
    1.  In the **Memory (GB)** text box, enter **4**.
    
    1.  In the **Public IP address** section, select **No**.
    
    1.  Select **OK**.

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

#### Task 3: Manually deploy a container image to Container Instances

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Create a resource** link.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box above the list of featured services.

1.  In the search box, enter **Container instance**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Container Instances** result.

1.  From the **Container Instances** blade, select **Create**.

1.  Find the tabs from the **Create Container Instances** blade, such as **Basics**, **Networking**, and **Advanced**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new container instance.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.

    1.  In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select **ContainerCompute**.
    
    1.  In the **Container name** text box, enter **manualcompute**.

    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select **(US) East US**.
    
    1.  In the **Image source** section, select **Azure Container Registry**.
    
    1.  In the **Registry** drop-down list, select the **Azure Container Registry** resource that you created earlier in this lab.
    
    1.  In the **Image** drop-down list, select **ipcheck**.
    
    1.  In the **Image tag** drop-down list, select **latest**.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the selected options.

1.  Select **Create** to create the container instance by using your specified configuration.  

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before moving forward with this lab.

#### Task 4: Validate that the container instance ran successfully

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **ContainerCompute** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **ContainerCompute** blade, select the **manualcompute** container instance that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Container Instance** blade, find the **Settings** section, and then select the **Containers** link.

1.  In the **Containers** section, find the list of **Events**.

1.  Select the **Logs** tab, and then find the text logs from the container instance.

> **Note**: You can also optionally find the **Events** and **Logs** from the **managedcompute** container instance.

> **Note**: After the application finishes running, the container terminates because it has completed its work. For the manually created container instance, you indicated that a successful exit was acceptable, so the container ran once. The automatically created instance didn't offer this option, and it assumes the container should always be running, so you'll notice repeated restarts of the container.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used multiple methods to deploy a container image to an Azure container instance. By using the manual method, you were also able to customize the deployment further and to run task-based applications as part of a container run.

