### Exercise 2: Monitor a local web application by using Application Insights 

#### Task 1: Build a .NET Web API project

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Visual Studio Code** icon.

1.  From the **File** menu, select **Open Folder**.

1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\12\\Starter\\Api**, and then select **Select Folder**.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click the Explorer pane or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the **Open** command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to create a new .NET Web API application named **SimpleApi** in the current directory:

    ```
    dotnet new webapi --output . --name SimpleApi
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 2.13.0 of **Microsoft.ApplicationInsights** from NuGet to the current project:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.ApplicationInsights --version 2.13.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.ApplicationInsights** package from NuGet. For more information, go to [Microsoft.ApplicationInsights](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ApplicationInsights/2.13.0).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 2.13.0 of **Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore --version 2.13.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore** package from NuGet. For more information, go to [Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.AspNetCore/2.13.0).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 2.13.0 of **Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.PerfCounterCollector** from NuGet to the current project:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.PerfCounterCollector  --version 2.13.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.PerfCounterCollector** package from NuGet. For more information, go to [Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.PerfCounterCollector](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.ApplicationInsights.PerfCounterCollector/2.13.0).


1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web app:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```
    
#### Task 2: Update application code to disable HTTPS and use Application Insights

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, in the Explorer pane, select the **Startup.cs** file to open the file in the editor.

1.  In the editor, in the **Startup** class, find and delete the following line of code at line 39:

    ```
    app.UseHttpsRedirection();
    ```

    > **Note**: This line of code forces the web app to use HTTPS. For this lab, this is unnecessary.

1.  In the **Startup** class, add a new static string constant named **INSTRUMENTATION_KEY** with its value set to the instrumentation key that you copied from the Application Insights resource you created earlier in this lab:

    ```
    private const string INSTRUMENTATION_KEY = "{your_instrumentation_key}";
    ```

    > **Note**: For example, if your instrumentation key is ``d2bb0eed-1342-4394-9b0c-8a56d21aaa43``, your line of code would be ``private const string INSTRUMENTATION_KEY = "d2bb0eed-1342-4394-9b0c-8a56d21aaa43";``

1.  Find the **ConfigureServices** method in the **Startup** class:

    ```
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        services.AddControllers();
    }
    ```

1.  Add a new line of code at the end of the **ConfigureServices** method to configure Application Insights using the provided instrumentation key:

    ```    
    services.AddApplicationInsightsTelemetry(INSTRUMENTATION_KEY);
    ```

1.  Observe the **ConfigureServices** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
    {
        services.AddControllers();
        services.AddApplicationInsightsTelemetry(INSTRUMENTATION_KEY);        
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Startup.cs** file.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application.

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

#### Task 3: Test an API application locally

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application.

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

1.  On the taskbar, open the context menu for the **Microsoft Edge** icon, and then open a new browser window.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the **/weatherforecast** relative path of your test application that's hosted at **localhost** on port **5000**.
    
    > **Note**: The full URL is http://localhost:5000/weatherforecast

1.  Close the browser window that's displaying the http://localhost:5000/weatherforecast address.

1.  Close the currently running Visual Studio Code application.

#### Task 4: Get metrics in Application Insights

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

1.  In the portal, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the **instrm*[yourname]*** Application Insights account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Application Insights** blade, in the tiles in the center of the blade, find the displayed metrics. Specifically, find the number of server requests that have occurred and the average server response time.

    > **Note**: It can take up to five minutes to observe requests in the Application Insights metrics charts.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created an API by using ASP.NET and configured it to stream application metrics to Application Insights. You then used the Application Insights dashboard to get performance details about your API.

