### Exercise 3: Monitor a web app using Application Insights

#### Task 1: Deploy an application to the web app

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Visual Studio Code** icon.

1.  From the **File** menu, select **Open Folder**.

1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\12\\Starter\\Api**, and then select **Select Folder**.

1.  In the Visual Studio Code window, right-click the Explorer pane or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to sign in to the Azure Command-Line Interface (CLI):

    ```
    az login
    ```

1.  In the browser window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.
    
    1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

1.  Return to the currently open command prompt application.  

    > **Note**: Wait for the sign-in process to finish.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to list all the apps in your **MonitoredAssets** resource group:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group MonitoredAssets
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to find the apps that have the prefix **smpapi\***:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group MonitoredAssets --query "[?starts_with(name, 'smpapi')]"
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to render out only the name of the single app that has the **smpapi\***:

    ```
    az webapp list --resource-group MonitoredAssets --query "[?starts_with(name, 'smpapi')].{Name:name}" --output tsv
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to change the current directory to the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\12\\Starter** directory that contains the deployment files:

    ```
    cd F:\Allfiles\Labs\12\Starter\
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to deploy the **api.zip** file to the web app that you created earlier in this lab:

    ```
    az webapp deployment source config-zip --resource-group MonitoredAssets --src api.zip --name <name-of-your-api-app>
    ```

    > **Note**: Replace the *name-of-your-api-app* placeholder with the name of the web app that you created earlier in this lab. You recently queried this app’s name in the previous steps.   

    > **Note**: Wait for the deployment to complete before you move forward with this lab.

1.  Close the currently running Visual Studio Code application.

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the ***smpapi\***[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select **Browse**. A new browser window or tab will open and return a "404 (Not Found)" error.

1.  In the browser address bar, update the URL by appending the suffix **/weatherforecast** to the end of the current URL, and then select Enter.

    > **Note**: For example, if your URL is https://smpapistudent.azurewebsites.net, the new URL would be https://smpapistudent.azurewebsites.net/weatherforecast.

1.  Find the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) array that's returned as a result of using the API.

#### Task 2: Configure in-depth metric collection for Web Apps

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the ***smpapi\***[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select **Application Insights**.

1.  From the **Application Insights** blade, perform the following actions:

    1.  Ensure that the **Application Insights** section is set to **Enable**.

    1.  In the **Instrument your application** section, select the **.NET** tab.

    1.  In the **Collection level** section, select **Recommended**.

    1.  In the **Profiler** secton, select **On**.

    1.  In the **Snapshot debugger** section, select **Off**.

    1.  In the **SQL Commands** section, select **Off**.

    1.  Select **Apply**.

    1.  In the confirmation dialog, select **Yes**.

1.  Close the **Application Insights** blade.

1.  Back from the **App Service** blade, select **Browse**. A new browser window or tab will open and return a "404 (Not Found)" error.

1.  In the browser address bar, update the URL by appending the suffix **/weatherforecast** to the end of the current URL, and then select Enter.

    > **Note**: For example, if your URL is https://smpapistudent.azurewebsites.net, the new URL would be https://smpapistudent.azurewebsites.net/weatherforecast.

1.  Observe the JSON array that's returned as a result of using the API.

1.  Record the URL that you used to access the JSON array.

    > **Note**: Using the example from the previous step, you would record the URL ``https://smpapistudent.azurewebsites.net/weatherforecast``.

#### Task 3: Get updated metrics in Application Insights

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

1.  In the portal, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the **instrm*[yourname]*** Application Insights account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Application Insights** blade, in the tiles in the center of the blade, find the displayed metrics. Specifically, find the number of server requests that have occurred and the average server response time.

    > **Note**: It can take up to five minutes to observe requests in the Application Insights metrics charts.

#### Task 4: View real-time metrics in Application Insights

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

1.  In the portal, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the **instrm*[yourname]*** Application Insights account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Application Insights** blade, select **Live Metrics Stream** in the **Investigate** section.

1.  On the taskbar, open the context menu for the **Microsoft Edge** icon, and then open a new browser window.

1.  In the new browser window, go to the URL that you recorded earlier in this lab.

1.  Observe the JSON array result.

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

1.  Observe the updated **Live Metrics Stream** blade.

    > **Note**: The **Incoming Requests** section should update within seconds, showing the requests that you made to the web app.

#### Review

In this exercise, you deployed your web application to Azure App Service and monitored your metrics from the same Application Insights instance.

