### Exercise 1: Create and configure Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  From the sign-in page, enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

> **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, a dialog box will display an offer to tour the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create an Application Insights resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Insights**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Application Insights** result.

1.  From the **Application Insights** blade, select **Create**.

1.  Find the tabs from the second **Application Insights** blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new Application Insights instance. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **MonitoredAssets**, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **instrm*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **(US) East US** region.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the Application Insights instance by using your specified configuration.   

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the **instrm*[yourname]*** Application Insights account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Application Insights** blade, in the **Configure** category, select the **Properties** link.

1.  In the **Properties** section, find the value of the **Instrumentation Key** text box. This key is used by client applications to connect to Application Insights.

#### Task 3: Create a web app by using Azure App Services resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Web**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Web App** result.

1.  From the **Web App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  Find the tabs from the second **Web App** blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new web app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** drop-down list, select **MonitoredAssets**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter ***smpapi\***[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Publish** section, select **Code**.

    1.  In the **Runtime stack** drop-down list, select **.NET Core 3.1 (LTS)**.

    1.  In the **Operating System** section, select **Windows**.

    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **East US** region.

    1.  In the **Windows Plan (East US)** section, select **Create new**, enter the value **MonitoredPlan** into the **Name** text box, and then select **OK**.

    1.  Leave the **SKU and size** section set to its default value.

    1.  Select **Next: Monitoring**.

1.  From the **Monitoring** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Enable Application Insights** section, select **Yes**.

    1.  In the **Application Insights** drop-down list, select the **instrm*[yourname]*** Application Insights account that you created earlier in this lab.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the web app by using your specified configuration.   

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **MonitoredAssets** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **MonitoredAssets** blade, select the ***smpapi\***[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, in the **Settings** category, select the **Configuration** link.

1.  In the **Configuration** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select the **Application settings** tab.

    1.  Select **Show Values** to get the secrets associated with your API.

    1.  Find the value corresponding to the **APPINSIGHTS\_INSTRUMENTATIONKEY** key. This value was set automatically when you built your Web Apps resource.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, in the **Settings** category, select the **Properties** link.

1.  In the **Properties** section, record the value of the **URL** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab to make requests against the API.

#### Task 4: Configure web app autoscale options

1.  From the **App Service** blade, in the **Settings** category, select the **Scale out (App Service Plan)** link.

1.  In the **Scale out** section, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select **Custom autoscale**.
    
    1.  In the **Autoscale setting name** text box, enter **ComputeScaler**.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** list, select **MonitoredAssets**.
    
    1.  In the **Scale mode** section, select **Scale based on a metric**.
    
    1.  In the **Minimum** text box in the **Instance limits** section, enter **2**.
    
    1.  In the **Maximum** text box in the **Instance limits** section, enter **8**.
    
    1.  In the **Default** text box in the **Instance limits** section, enter **3**.
    
    1.  Select **Add a rule**. In the **Scale rule** pop-up dialog, leave all boxes set to their default values, and then select **Add**.
    
    1.  Within the section, select **Save**. 

    > **Note**: Wait for the save operation to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created the resources that you'll use for the remainder of the lab.

