### Exercise 3: Query Microsoft Graph by using the .NET SDK

#### Task 1: Import the Microsoft Graph SDK from NuGet

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 1.21.0 of **Microsoft.Graph** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Graph --version 1.21.0
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.Graph** package from NuGet. For more information, go to [Microsoft.Graph](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Graph/1.21.0).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to import version 1.0.0-preview.2 of **Microsoft.Graph.Auth** from NuGet:

    ```
    dotnet add package Microsoft.Graph.Auth --version 1.0.0-preview.2
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet add package** command will add the **Microsoft.Graph.Auth** package from NuGet. For more information, go to [Microsoft.Graph.Auth](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Graph.Auth/1.0.0-preview.2).

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: Modify the Program class

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, open the **Program.cs** file.

1.  On the code editor tab for the **Program.cs** file, add the following line of code to import the **Microsoft.Graph** namespace from the **Microsoft.Graph** package imported from NuGet:

    ```
    using Microsoft.Graph;
    ```
    
1.  Add the following line of code to import the **Microsoft.Graph.Auth** namespace from the **Microsoft.Graph.Auth** package imported from NuGet:

    ```
    using Microsoft.Graph.Auth;
    ```

1.  Observe the **Program.cs** file, which should now include the following **using** directives:

    ```
    using Microsoft.Graph;    
    using Microsoft.Graph.Auth;
    using Microsoft.Identity.Client;
    using System;
    using System.Collections.Generic;
    using System.Threading.Tasks;
    ```

#### Task 3: Use the Microsoft Graph SDK to query user profile information

1.  Within the **Main** method, perform the following actions to remove unnecessary code:

    1.  Delete the following line of code:

        ```
        AuthenticationResult result;
        ```
    
    1.  Delete the following block of code:

        ```
        result = await app
                .AcquireTokenInteractive(scopes)
                .ExecuteAsync();
        ```
    
    1.  Delete the following line of code:

        ```
        Console.WriteLine($"Token:\t{result.AccessToken}");
        ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        IPublicClientApplication app;

        app = PublicClientApplicationBuilder
            .Create(_clientId)
            .WithAuthority(AzureCloudInstance.AzurePublic, _tenantId)
            .WithRedirectUri("http://localhost")
            .Build();

        List<string> scopes = new List<string> 
        { 
            "user.read"
        };
    }
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to create a new variable named *provider* of type **DeviceCodeProvider** that passes in the variables *app* and *scopes* as constructor parameters:

    ```
    DeviceCodeProvider provider = new DeviceCodeProvider(app, scopes);
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to create a new variable named *client* of type **GraphServiceClient** that passes in the variable *provider* as a constructor parameter:

    ```
    GraphServiceClient client = new GraphServiceClient(provider);
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, perform the following actions to use the **GraphServiceClient** instance to asynchronously get the response of issuing an HTTP request to the relative **/Me** directory of the REST API:

    1.  Add the following line of code to get the **Me** property of the *client* variable:

        ```
        client.Me
        ```

    1.  Update the previous line of code by adding another line of code to get an object representing the HTTP request by using the **Request()** method:

        ```
        client.Me
            .Request()
        ```

    1.  Update the previous line of code by adding another line of code to issue the request asynchronously by using the **GetAsync()** method:

        ```
        client.Me
            .Request()
            .GetAsync()
        ```

    1.  Update the previous line of code by adding more code to process the expression asynchronously by using the **await** keyword:

        ```
        await client.Me
            .Request()
            .GetAsync()
        ```

    1.  Update the previous line of code by adding more code to store the result of the expression in a new variable named *myProfile* of type **User**:

        ```
        User myProfile = await client.Me
            .Request()
            .GetAsync();
        ```

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to use the **Console.WriteLine** method to render the value of the **User.DisplayName** member to the console:

    ```
    Console.WriteLine($"Name:\t{myProfile.DisplayName}");
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, add the following line of code to use the **Console.WriteLine** method to render the value of the **User.Id** member to the console:

    ```
    Console.WriteLine($"AAD Id:\t{myProfile.Id}");
    ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        IPublicClientApplication app;

        app = PublicClientApplicationBuilder
            .Create(_clientId)
            .WithAuthority(AzureCloudInstance.AzurePublic, _tenantId)
            .WithRedirectUri("http://localhost")
            .Build();

        List<string> scopes = new List<string> 
        { 
            "user.read" 
        };

        DeviceCodeProvider provider = new DeviceCodeProvider(app, scopes);

        GraphServiceClient client = new GraphServiceClient(provider);

        User myProfile = await client.Me
            .Request()
            .GetAsync();

        Console.WriteLine($"Name:\t{myProfile.DisplayName}");
        Console.WriteLine($"AAD Id:\t{myProfile.Id}");
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

#### Task 4: Test the updated application

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\06\\Solution\\GraphClient** folder.

1.  Observe the message in the output from the currently running console application. Record the value of the code in the message. You'll use this value later in the lab.

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to <https://microsoft.com/devicelogin>.

1.  On the **Enter code** webpage, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Code** text box, enter the value of the code that you copied earlier in the lab.

    1.  Select **Next**.  

1.  On the login webpage, perform the following actions:

    1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

    1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: You might have the option to select an existing Microsoft account as opposed to signing in again.

1.  Return to the currently running Visual Studio Code application.

1.  Observe the output from the Microsoft Graph request in the currently running console application.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Review

In this exercise, you queried Microsoft Graph by using the SDK and MSAL-based authentication.

