### Exercise 2: Create an Event Grid subscription

#### Task 1: Access the Event Grid Viewer web application

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **PubSubEvents** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **PubSubEvents** blade, select the **eventviewer*[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **App Service** blade, in the **Settings** category, select the **Properties** link.

1.  In the **Properties** section, record the value of the **URL** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab.

1.  Select **Overview**.

1.  In the **Overview** section, select **Browse**.

1.  Observe the currently running **Azure Event Grid viewer** web application. Leave this web application running for the remainder of the lab.

    > **Note**: This web application will update in real-time as events are sent to its endpoint. We will use this to monitor events throughout the lab.

1.  Return to your currently open browser window that's displaying the Azure portal.

#### Task 2: Create new subscription

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **PubSubEvents** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **PubSubEvents** blade, select the **hrtopic*[yourname]*** Event Grid topic that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Event Grid Topic** blade, select **+ Event Subscription**.

1.  On the **Create Event Subscription** blade, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **basicsub**.

    1.  In the **Event Schema** list, select **Event Grid Schema**.
    
    1.  In the **Endpoint Type** list, select **Web Hook**.

    1.  Select **Endpoint**.

    1.  In the **Select Web Hook** dialog box, in the **Subscriber Endpoint** text box, enter the **Web App URL** value that you recorded earlier, ensure it uses an **https://** prefix, add the suffix **/api/updates**, and then select **Confirm Selection**.

        > **Note**: For example, if your **Web App URL** value is **http://eventviewerstudent.azurewebsites.net/**, then your **Subscriber Endpoint** would be **https://eventviewerstudent.azurewebsites.net/api/updates**.

    1.  Select **Create**.
  
    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the subscription before you continue with the lab. You'll receive a notification when the app is created.

#### Task 3: Observe the subscription validation event

1.  Return to the browser window displaying the **Azure Event Grid viewer** web application.

1.  Review the **Microsoft.EventGrid.SubscriptionValidationEvent** event that was created as part of the subscription creation process.

1.  Select the event and review its JSON content.

1.  Return to your currently open browser window with the Azure portal.

#### Task 4: Record subscription credentials

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, select the **PubSubEvents** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **PubSubEvents** blade, select the **hrtopic*[yourname]*** Event Grid topic that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Event Grid Topic** blade, record the value of the **Topic Endpoint** field. You'll use this value later in the lab.

1.  In the **Settings** category, select the **Access keys** link.

1.  In the **Access keys** section, record the value of the **Key 1** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a new subscription, validated its registration, and then recorded the credentials required to publish a new event to the topic.

