### Exercise 1: Creating an Azure App Service resource by using a Docker container image

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  At the sign-in page, enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you will be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour and begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create a web app by using Azure App Service resource by using an httpbin container image

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **Web**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **Web App** result.

1.  From the **Web App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  From the second **Web App** blade, find the tabs from the blade, such as **Basics**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new web app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  From the **Basics** tab, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, enter **ApiService**, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **httpapi*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Publish** section, select **Docker Container**.

    1.  In the **Operating System** section, select **Linux**.

    1.  In the **Region** drop-down list, select the **East US** region.

    1.  In the **Linux Plan (East US)** section, select **Create new**, enter the value **ApiPlan** in the **Name** text box, and then select **OK**.

    1.  Leave the **SKU and size** section set to its default value.

    1.  Select **Next: Docker**.

1.  From the **Docker** tab, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Options** drop-down list, select **Single Container**.

    1.  In the **Image Source** drop-down list, select **Docker Hub**.

    1.  In the **Access Type** drop-down list, select **Public**.

    1.  In the **Image and tag** text box, enter **kennethreitz/httpbin:latest**.

    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  From the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you selected during the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the web app by using your specified configuration. 

    > **Note**: Wait for the creation task to complete before you move forward with this lab.

#### Task 3: Test the httpbin web application

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Resource groups**.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, select the **ApiService** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **ManagedPlatform** blade, select the **httpapi*[yourname]*** web app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.	From the **Web App** blade, select **Browse**.

1.  Within the web application, perform the following actions:

    1.  Select **Response formats**.

    1.  Select **GET /xml**.

    1.  Select **Try it out**.

    1.  Select **Execute**.

    1.  Observe the value of the **Response body** and **Response headers** text boxes.

    1.  Observe the value of the **Request URL** text box.

1.  Close the browser window for the web application.

1.  Find the **Web App** blade for the **httpapi*[yourname]*** web app back in the Azure portal.

1.  From the **Web App** blade, in the **Settings** section, select the **Properties** link.

1.  In the **Properties** section, record the value of the **URL** text box. You'll use this value later in the lab to make requests against the API.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a new Azure web app by using a container image sourced from Docker Hub.

