### Exercise 1: Create Azure resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure portal

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, go to the Azure portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1.  Enter the email address for your Microsoft account, and then select **Next**.

1.  Enter the password for your Microsoft account, and then select **Sign in**.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time signing in to the Azure portal, you'll be offered a tour of the portal. Select **Get Started** to skip the tour.

#### Task 2: Create an API Management resource

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select **Create a resource**.

1.  From the **New** blade, find the **Search the Marketplace** text box.

1.  In the search box, enter **API**, and then select Enter.

1.  From the **Marketplace** search results blade, select the **API Management** result.

1.  From the **API Management** blade, select **Create**.

1.  From the **API Management Service** blade, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **prodapim*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select **Create new**, in the text box enter **AutomatedWorkflow**, and then select **OK**.
    
    1.  In the **Location** list, select **East US**.
    
    1.  In the **Organization name** text box, enter **Contoso**.
    
    1.  Leave the **Administrator email** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Pricing tier** list, select **Consumption (99.9 SLA, %)**, and then select **Create**.
    
    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the API Management resource prior to moving on in the lab. You will receive a notification when the resource is created.

#### Task 3: Create a Logic App resource

1.  In the navigation pane of the Azure portal, select **+ Create a resource**.

1.  On the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

1.  In the search field, enter **Logic**, and then select Enter.

1.  On the **Everything** search results blade, select **Logic App**.

1.  On the **Logic App** blade, select **Create**.

1.  On the **Logic App** blade, review the tabs on the blade, such as **Basics**, **Tags**, and **Review + Create**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new logic app. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  Select the **Basics** tab, and then in the tab area, perform the following actions:
       
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** list, select **Use existing**, and then select the **AutomatedWorkflow** group you created earlier in the lab.
        
    1.  In the **Logic App name** field, enter **prodflow*[yourname]***.

    1.  In the **Select the location** section, select **Region**.

    1.  In the **Location** list, select **East US**.
    
    1.  In the **Log Analytics** section, select **Off**.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you specified in the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the logic app by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: Wait for Azure to finish creating the Logic Apps resource prior to moving on in the lab. You will receive a notification when the resource is created.

#### Task 4: Create a storage account

1.  In the Azure portal navigation pane, select **All services**.

1.  On the **All services** blade, select **Storage Accounts**.

1.  On the **Storage accounts** blade, get your list of storage account instances, and then select **Add**.

1.  On the **Create storage account** blade, review the tabs on the blade, such as **Basics**, **Tags**, and **Review + Create**.

    > **Note**: Each tab represents a step in the workflow to create a new storage account. You can select **Review + Create** at any time to skip the remaining tabs.

1.  Select the **Basics** tab, and then in the tab area, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Leave the **Subscription** text box set to its default value.
    
    1.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **AutomatedWorkflow** group you created earlier in the lab.
    
    1.  In the **Storage account name** text box, enter **prodstor*[yourname]***.
    
    1.  In the **Location** list, select the **(US) East US** region.
    
    1.  In the **Performance** section, select **Standard**.
    
    1.  In the **Account kind** list, select **StorageV2 (general purpose v2)**.
    
    1.  In the **Replication** list, select **Locally-redundant storage (LRS)**.
    
    1.  In the **Access tier (default)** section, ensure that **Hot** is selected.
    
    1.  Select **Review + Create**.

1.  On the **Review + Create** tab, review the options that you specified in the previous steps.

1.  Select **Create** to create the storage account by using your specified configuration.

    > **Note**: On the **Deployment** blade, wait for the creation task to complete before moving on in this lab.

#### Task 5: Upload sample content to Azure Files

1.  In the Azure portal navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **AutomatedWorkflow** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **AutomatedWorkflow** blade, select the **prodstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Storage account** blade, in the **File service** section, select the **File shares** link.

1.  In the **File shares** section, select **+ File share**.

1.  In the **File share** pop-up dialog box, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **metadata**.
    
    1.  In the **Quota** text box, enter **1** (GiB).
    
    1.  Select **Create**.

1.  Back in the **File shares** section, select the recently created **metadata** share.

1.	On the **File share** blade, select **Upload**.

1.	In the **Upload files** dialog box, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Files** section, select the **Folder** icon.

    1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\09\\Starter**, select the following files, and then select **Open**:

        -   **item_00.json**
        
        -   **item_01.json**
        
        -   **item_02.json**
        
        -   **item_03.json**
        
        -   **item_04.json** 

    1.  Ensure that the **Overwrite if files already exist** check box is selected, and then select **Upload**. 
    
    > **Note**: Wait for the blob to upload before you continue with this lab.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created all the resources that you'll use for this lab.

