### Exercise 4: Access storage account blobs

#### Task 1: Upload a sample storage blob

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securestor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **Storage account** blade, select the **Containers** link in the **Blob service** section.

1.  In the **Containers** section, select **+ Container**.

1.  In the **New container** pop-up window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **drop**.
    
    1.  In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select **Blob (anonymous read access for blobs only)**, and then select **OK**.

1.  Back in the **Containers** section, select the newly created **drop** container.

1.  From the **Container** blade, select **Upload**.

1.  In the **Upload blob** pop-up window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Files** section, select the **Folder** icon.
    
    1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\07\\Starter**, select the **records.json** file, and then select **Open**.
    
    1.  Ensure that **Overwrite if files already exist** is selected, and then select **Upload**.  

    > **Note**: Wait for the blob to upload before you continue with this lab.

1.  Back from the **Container** blade, select the **records.json** blob in the list of blobs.

1.  From the **Blob** blade, find the blob metadata, and then copy the URL for the blob.

1.  On the taskbar, right-click the **Microsoft Edge** icon or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **New window**.

1.  In the new browser window, go to the URL that you copied for the blob.

1.  You should now notice the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) contents of the blob. Close the browser window with the JSON contents.

1.  Return to the browser window with the Azure portal, and then close the **Blob** blade.

1.  Back from the **Container** blade, select **Change access level policy**.

1.  In the **Change access level** pop-up window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select **Private (no anonymous access)**.
    
    1.  Select **OK**.

1.  On the taskbar, right-click the **Microsoft Edge** icon or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **New window**.

1.  In the new browser window, go to the URL that you copied for the blob.

1.  You should now notice an error message indicating that the resource wasn't found.

    > **Note**: If you don't notice the error message, your browser might have cached the file. Press Ctrl+F5 to refresh the page until you notice the error message.

#### Task 2: Add a .NET application setting

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securefunc*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Configuration** option from the **Settings** section.

1.  From the **Configuration** pane, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Select the **Application settings** tab, and then select **New application setting**.
    
    1.  In the **Add/Edit application setting** pop-up window, in the **Name** text box, enter **DOTNET_ADD_GLOBAL_TOOLS_TO_PATH**.
    
    1.  In the **Value** text box, enter **false**.
    
    1.  Leave the **deployment slot setting** text box set to its default value.

    1.  Select **OK** to close the pop-up window and return to the **Configuration** section.
    
    1.  Select **Save** from the blade to persist your settings.  

    1.  In the **Save Changes** confirmation popup dialog, select **Continue**.

    > **Note**: Wait for your application settings to persist before you move forward with the lab.

#### Task 3: Pull the storage account SDK from NuGet

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securefunc*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **App Service Editor (Preview)** option from the **Development Tools** section.

1.  From the **App Service Editor (Preview)** pane, select **Go ->**.

1.  In the **App Service Editor** browser window, expand the **FileParser** folder, open the context menu, and then select **New File**.

1.  In the dialog box, enter **function.proj**, and then select Enter, which displays an empty code editor.

1.  In the editor, insert this configuration content:

    ```xml
    <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
        <PropertyGroup>
            <TargetFramework>netstandard2.0</TargetFramework>
        </PropertyGroup>
        <ItemGroup>
            <PackageReference Include="Azure.Storage.Blobs" Version="12.4.0" />
        </ItemGroup>
    </Project>
    ```

    > **Note**: The App Service Editor will save changes to the file automatically. This .proj file contains the NuGet package reference necessary to import the [Azure.Storage.Blobs](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.Storage.Blobs/12.4.0) package.

1.  Close the browser window with the **App Service Editor**.

#### Task 4: Update the namespace references

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  From the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **SecureFunction** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **SecureFunction** blade, select the **securefunc*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Functions** option from the **Functions** section.

1.  In the **Functions** pane, select the the existing **FileParser** function to open the editor for the function.

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Code + Test** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  Within the editor, delete the existing code in the **Run** method of the script.

1.  In the code file, add the following line of code to create a **using** directive for the **Azure.Storage** namespace:

    ```
    using Azure.Storage;
    ```

1.  In the code file, add the following line of code to create a **using** directive for the **Azure.Storage.Blobs** namespace:

    ```
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to create a **using** directive for the **Azure.Storage.Blobs.Models** namespace:

    ```
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs.Models;
    ```

1.  Observe the **Run** method, which should now include:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using Azure.Storage;
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs.Models;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req)
    {

    }
    ```

#### Task 5: Write storage account code

1.  Add the following line of code in the **Run** method to get the value of the **StorageConnectionString** application setting by using the **Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable** method:

    ```
    string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("StorageConnectionString");
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to create a new instance of the **BlobServiceClient** class by passing in your *connectionString* variable to the constructor:

    ```
    BlobServiceClient serviceClient = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to use the **BlobServiceClient.GetBlobContainerClient** method, while passing in the **drop** container name to create a new instance of the **BlobContainerClient** class that references the container that you created earlier in this lab:

    ```
    BlobContainerClient containerClient = serviceClient.GetBlobContainerClient("drop");
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to use the **BlobContainerClient.GetBlobClient** method, while passing in the **records.json** blob name to create a new instance of the **BlobClient** class that references the blob that you uploaded earlier in this lab:

    ```
    BlobClient blobClient = containerClient.GetBlobClient("records.json");
    ```
    
1.  Observe the **Run** method, which should now include:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using Azure.Storage;
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs.Models;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req)
    {
        string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("StorageConnectionString");
        BlobServiceClient serviceClient = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
        BlobContainerClient containerClient = serviceClient.GetBlobContainerClient("drop");
        BlobClient blobClient = containerClient.GetBlobClient("records.json");
    }
    ```

#### Task 6: Download a blob

1.  Add the following line of code to use the **BlobClient.DownloadAsync** method to download the contents of the referenced blob asynchronously and store the result in a variable named *response*:

    ```
    var response = await blobClient.DownloadAsync();
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to return the various content stored in the *content* variable by using the **FileStreamResult** class constructor:

    ```
    return new FileStreamResult(response?.Value?.Content, response?.Value?.ContentType);
    ```

1.  Observe the **Run** method, which should now include:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using Azure.Storage;
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs;
    using Azure.Storage.Blobs.Models;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req)
    {
        string connectionString = Environment.GetEnvironmentVariable("StorageConnectionString");
        BlobServiceClient serviceClient = new BlobServiceClient(connectionString);
        BlobContainerClient containerClient = serviceClient.GetBlobContainerClient("drop");
        BlobClient blobClient = containerClient.GetBlobClient("records.json");
        var response = await blobClient.DownloadAsync();
        return new FileStreamResult(response?.Value?.Content, response?.Value?.ContentType);
    }
    ```

1.  Select **Save** to persist your changes to the function code.

1.  Select **Test/Run**.

1.  In the popup dialog that appears, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Input** tab, select **Run**.

    1.  In the **Output** tab, observe the output content of the **$/drop/records.json** blob stored in your storage account.

#### Review

In this exercise, you used C\# code to access a storage account, and then download the contents of a blob.

