### Exercise 3: Open and configure a .NET web application

#### Task 1: Open and build the web application

1.  On the **Start** screen, select the **Visual Studio Code** tile.

1.  From the **File** menu, select **Open Folder**.

1.  In the **File Explorer** window that opens, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\04\\Starter\\AdventureWorks**, and then select **Select Folder**.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to build the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet build** command will automatically restore any missing NuGet packages prior to building all projects in the folder.

1.  Observe the results of the build printed in the terminal. The build should complete successfully with no errors or warning messages.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: Update the SQL connection string

1.  In the Explorer pane of the **Visual Studio Code** window, expand the **AdventureWorks.Web** project.

1.  Open the **appsettings.json** file.

1.  In the JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) object on line 3, find the **ConnectionStrings.AdventureWorksSqlContext** path. Observe that the current value is empty:

    ```
    "ConnectionStrings": {
        "AdventureWorksSqlContext": "",
        ...
    },
    ```

1.  Update the value of the **AdventureWorksSqlContext** property by setting its value to the **ADO.NET (SQL Authentication) connection string** of the SQL database that you recorded earlier in this lab.

    > **Note**: It's important that you use your updated connection string here. The original connection string copied from the portal won't have the username and password necessary to connect to the SQL database.

1.  Save the **appsettings.json** file.

#### Task 3: Update the blob base URL

1.  In the JSON object on line 8, find the **Settings.BlobContainerUrl** path. Observe that the current value is empty:

    ```
    "Settings": {
        "BlobContainerUrl": "",
        ...
    }
    ```

1.  Update the value of the **BlobContainerUrl** property by setting its value to the **URL** property of the Azure Storage blob container named **images** that you recorded earlier in this lab.

1.  Save the **appsettings.json** file.

#### Task 4: Validate the web application

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, access the shortcut menu or right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to switch your terminal context to the **AdventureWorks.Web** folder:

    ```
    cd .\AdventureWorks.Web\
    ```

1.  At the command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: The **dotnet run** command will automatically build any changes to the project and then start the web application without a debugger attached. The command will output the URL of the running application and any assigned ports.

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1.  In the open browser window, browse to the currently running web application (<http://localhost:5000>).

1.  In the web application, observe the list of models displayed from the front page.

1.  Find the **Water Bottle** model, and then select **View Details**.

1.  From the **Water Bottle** product detail page, find **Add to Cart**, and then observe that the checkout functionality is currently disabled.

1.  Close the browser window displaying your web application.

1.  Return to the **Visual Studio Code** window, and then select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Review

In this exercise, you configured your ASP.NET web application to connect to your resources in Azure.

