### Exercise 4: Create a function that integrates with other services

#### Task 1: Create an HTTP-triggered function

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **Serverless** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Serverless** blade, select the **funclogic*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Functions** option from the **Functions** section.

1. In the **Functions** pane, select the **+ Add** button.

1.  In the **New Function** popup dialog, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  Within the **Templates** tab, select **HTTP trigger**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **New Function** text box and then enter **GetSettingInfo**.

    1.  Within the **Details** tab, find the **Authorization** text box and then select **Anonymous**.

    1.  Select **Create Function**.

#### Task 2: Upload sample content

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **Serverless** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Serverless** blade, select the **funcstor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Storage account** blade, select the **Containers** link in the **Blob service** section.

1.  In the **Containers** section, select **+ Container**.

1.  In the **New container** pop-up window, perform the following actions:
    
    1.  In the **Name** text box, enter **content**.
    
    1.  In the **Public access level** drop-down list, select **Private (no anonymous access)**.
    
    1.  Select **OK**.

1.  Back in the **Containers** section, select the recently created **content** container.

1.	On the **Container** blade, select **Upload**.

1.	In the **Upload blob** window, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Files** section, select the **Folder** icon.

    1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\02\\Starter**, select the **settings.json** file, and then select **Open**.

    1.  Ensure that the **Overwrite if files already exist** check box is selected, and then select **Upload**. 
    
    > **Note**: Wait for the blob to upload before you continue with this lab.

#### Task 3: Configure an HTTP-triggered function

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **Serverless** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Serverless** blade, select the **funclogic*[yourname]*** function app that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  From the **App Service** blade, select the **Functions** option from the **Functions** section.

1.  In the **Functions** pane, select the the existing **GetSettingInfo** function to open the editor for the function.

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Integration** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the **Integration** pane, select the **+ Add input**.

1.  In the **Create Input** popup dialog, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Binding Type** list, select **Azure Blob Storage**.

    1.  In the **Blob parameter name** text box, enter the value **json**.

    1.  In the **Path** text box, enter the value **content/settings.json**.

    1.  In the **Storage account connection** list, select **AzureWebJobsStorage**.

    1.  Select **OK**.

1.  Back in the **Integration pane**, select the **HTTP** trigger.

1.  In the **Edit Trigger** popup dialog, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Request parameter name** text box, enter the value **request**.

    1.  In the **Selected HTTP methods** check box group, ensure that only the **GET** option is selected.

    1.  Select **Save**.

#### Task 4: Write function code

1.  In the **Function** blade, select the **Code + Test** option from the **Developer** section.

1.  In the function editor, find the example **run.csx** function script:

    ```
    #r "Newtonsoft.Json"

    using System.Net;
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using Microsoft.Extensions.Primitives;
    using Newtonsoft.Json;

    public static async Task<IActionResult> Run(HttpRequest req, ILogger log)
    {
        log.LogInformation("C# HTTP trigger function processed a request.");

        string name = req.Query["name"];

        string requestBody = await new StreamReader(req.Body).ReadToEndAsync();
        dynamic data = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject(requestBody);
        name = name ?? data?.name;

        string responseMessage = string.IsNullOrEmpty(name)
            ? "This HTTP triggered function executed successfully. Pass a name in the query string or in the request body for a personalized response."
                    : $"Hello, {name}. This HTTP triggered function executed successfully.";

                return new OkObjectResult(responseMessage);
    }
    ```

1.  **Delete** all the example code.

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc** namespace:

    ```
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    ```

1.  Add the following line of code to import the **System.Net** namespace:

    ```
    using System.Net;
    ```

1.  Add the following code block to create a new **public static** method named **Run** that returns a variable of type **IActionResult** and that also takes in variables of type **HttpRequest** and **string** as parameters named *request* and *json*:

    ```
    public static IActionResult Run(HttpRequest request, string json)
    {
    }
    ```

1.  In the **Run** method, enter the following line of code to return the content of the *json* parameter as the HTTP response of the function:

    ```
    return new OkObjectResult(json);
    ```

1.  Observe the **run.csx** file, which should now include:

    ```
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc;
    using System.Net;

    public static IActionResult Run(HttpRequest request, string json)
    {
        return new OkObjectResult(json);
    }
    ```

1.  Select **Save** to persist your changes to the function code.

#### Task 5: Test function run

1.  On the taskbar, select the **Windows Terminal** icon.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to start the **httprepl** tool setting the base URI to the value of the URL that you copied earlier in this lab.

    ```
    httprepl <function-app-url>
    ```

    > **Note**: For example, if your URL is **https://funclogicstudent.azurewebsites.net**, your command would be **httprepl https://funclogicstudent.azurewebsites.net**.

1.  At the tool prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to browse to the relative **api** endpoint:

    ```
    cd api
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to browse to the relative **getsettinginfo** endpoint:

    ```
    cd getsettinginfo
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the **get** command for the current endpoint:

    ```
    get
    ```

1.  Observe the JSON content of the response from the function app, which should now include:

    ```
    {
        "version": "0.2.4",
        "root": "/usr/libexec/mews_principal/",
        "device": {
            "id": "21e46d2b2b926cba031a23c6919"
        },
        "notifications": {
            "email": "Anais85@outlook.com",
            "phone": "751.757.2014 x4151"
        }
    }
    ```

1.  Enter the following command, and then select Enter to exit the **httprepl** application:

    ```
    exit
    ```

1.  Close the currently running Windows Terminal application.

1.	Return to the browser window with the Azure portal.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created a function that returns the content of a JSON file in Storage.

