### Exercise 4: Retrieve blob Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) by using the .NET SDK

#### Task 1: Enumerate the blobs in an existing container by using the SDK

1.  In the **Program** class, enter the following code to create a new **private static** method named **EnumerateBlobsAsync** that's asynchronous and has two parameter types, **BlobServiceClient** and **string**:

    ```
    private static async Task EnumerateBlobsAsync(BlobServiceClient client, string containerName)
    {      
    }
    ```

1.  In the **EnumerateBlobsAsync** method, enter the following code to get a new instance of the **BlobContainerClient** class by using the **GetBlobContainerClient** method of the **BlobServiceClient** class, passing in the **containerName** parameter:

    ```
    BlobContainerClient container = client.GetBlobContainerClient(containerName);
    ```

1.  In the **EnumerateBlobsAsync** method, enter the following code to render the name of the container that will be enumerated:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Searching:\t{container.Name}");
    ```

1.  In the **EnumerateBlobsAsync** method, enter the following code to create an asynchronous **foreach** loop that iterates over the results of an invocation of the **GetBlobsAsync** method of the **BlobContainerClient** class:

    ```
    await foreach (BlobItem blob in container.GetBlobsAsync())
    {        
    }
    ```

1.  Within the **foreach** loop, enter the following code to print the name of each blob:

    ```
     await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Existing Blob:\t{blob.Name}");
    ```

1.  Observe the **EnumerateBlobsAsync** method, which should now include:

    ```
    private static async Task EnumerateBlobsAsync(BlobServiceClient client, string containerName)
    {      
        BlobContainerClient container = client.GetBlobContainerClient(containerName);
        
        await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Searching:\t{container.Name}");
        
        await foreach (BlobItem blob in container.GetBlobsAsync())
        {        
             await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Existing Blob:\t{blob.Name}");
        }
    }
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to create a variable named *existingContainerName* with a value of **raster-graphics**:

    ```
    string existingContainerName = "raster-graphics";
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to invoke the **EnumerateBlobsAsync** method, passing in the *serviceClient* and *existingContainerName* variables as parameters:

    ```
    await EnumerateBlobsAsync(serviceClient, existingContainerName);
    ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        \\ Existing code removed for brevity
        
        await EnumerateContainersAsync(serviceClient);

        string existingContainerName = "raster-graphics";
        await EnumerateBlobsAsync(serviceClient, existingContainerName);
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\BlobManager** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The updated output includes metadata about the existing container and blobs.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 2: Create a new container by using the SDK

1.  In the **Program** class, enter the following code to create a new **private static** method named **GetContainerAsync** that's asynchronous and has two parameter types, **BlobServiceClient** and **string**:

    ```
    private static async Task<BlobContainerClient> GetContainerAsync(BlobServiceClient client, string containerName)
    {      
    }
    ```

1.  In the **GetContainerAsync** method, enter the following code to get a new instance of the **BlobContainerClient** class by using the **GetBlobContainerClient** method of the **BlobServiceClient** class, passing in the **containerName** parameter:

    ```
    BlobContainerClient container = client.GetBlobContainerClient(containerName);
    ```

1.  In the **GetContainerAsync** method, enter the following code to invoke the **CreateIfNotExistsAsync** method of the **BlobContainerClient** class:

    ```
    await container.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(PublicAccessType.Blob);
    ```

1.  In the **GetContainerAsync** method, enter the following code to render the name of the container that was potentially created:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"New Container:\t{container.Name}");
    ```

1.  In the **GetContainerAsync** method, enter the following code to return the instance of the **BlobContainerClient** class named **container** as the result of the **GetContainerAsync** method:

    ```
    return container;
    ```  

1.  Observe the **GetContainerAsync** method, which should now include:

    ```
    private static async Task<BlobContainerClient> GetContainerAsync(BlobServiceClient client, string containerName)
    {      
        BlobContainerClient container = client.GetBlobContainerClient(containerName);
        
        await container.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(PublicAccessType.Blob);
        
        await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"New Container:\t{container.Name}");
        
        return container;
    }
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to create a variable named *newContainerName* with a value of **vector-graphics**:

    ```
    string newContainerName = "vector-graphics";
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to invoke the **GetContainerAsync** method, passing in the *serviceClient* and *newContainerName* variables as parameters, and to store the result in a variable named *containerClient* of type **BlobContainerClient**:

    ```
    BlobContainerClient containerClient = await GetContainerAsync(serviceClient, newContainerName);
    ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        \\ Existing code removed for brevity
        
        await EnumerateContainersAsync(serviceClient);

        string existingContainerName = "raster-graphics";
        await EnumerateBlobsAsync(serviceClient, existingContainerName);
        
        string newContainerName = "vector-graphics";
        BlobContainerClient containerClient = await GetContainerAsync(serviceClient, newContainerName);
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\BlobManager** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The updated output includes metadata about the existing container and blobs.

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 3: Upload a new blob by using the portal

1.  In the Azure portal's navigation pane, select the **Resource groups** link.

1.  On the **Resource groups** blade, find and then select the **StorageMedia** resource group that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **StorageMedia** blade, select the **mediastor*[yourname]*** storage account that you created earlier in this lab.

1.  On the **Storage account** blade, select the **Containers** link in the **Blob service** section.

1.  In the **Containers** section, select the newly created **vector-graphics** container.

1.	On the **Container** blade, select **Upload**.

1.	In the **Upload blob** window, perform the following actions:

    1.  In the **Files** section, select the **Folder** icon.

    1.  In the **File Explorer** window, browse to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Starter\\Images**, select the **graph.svg** file, and then select **Open**.

    1.  Ensure that the **Overwrite if files already exist** check box is selected, and then select **Upload**. 
    
    > **Note**: Wait for the blob to upload before you continue with this lab.

#### Task 4: Access blob URI by using the SDK

1.  In the **Program** class, enter the following code to create a new **private static** method named **GetBlobAsync** that's asynchronous and has two parameter types, **BlobContainerClient** and **string**:

    ```
    private static async Task<BlobClient> GetBlobAsync(BlobContainerClient client, string blobName)
    {      
    }
    ```

1.  In the **GetBlobAsync** method, enter the following code to get a new instance of the **BlobClient** class by using the **GetBlobClient** method of the **BlobContainerClient** class, passing in the **blobName** parameter:

    ```
    BlobClient blob = client.GetBlobClient(blobName);
    ```

1.  In the **GetBlobAsync** method, enter the following code to render the name of the blob that was referenced:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Blob Found:\t{blob.Name}");
    ```

1.  In the **GetBlobAsync** method, enter the following code to return the instance of the **BlobClient** class named **blob** as the result of the **GetBlobAsync** method:

    ```
    return blob;
    ```

1.  Observe the **GetBlobAsync** method, which should now include:

    ```
    private static async Task<BlobClient> GetBlobAsync(BlobContainerClient client, string blobName)
    {      
        BlobClient blob = client.GetBlobClient(blobName);
        await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Blob Found:\t{blob.Name}");
        return blob;
    }
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to create a variable named *uploadedBlobName* with a value of **graph.svg**:

    ```
    string uploadedBlobName = "graph.svg";
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to invoke the **GetBlobAsync** method, passing in the *containerClient* and *uploadedBlobName* variables as parameters, and to store the result in a variable named *blobClient* of type **BlobClient**:

    ```
    BlobClient blobClient = await GetBlobAsync(containerClient, uploadedBlobName);
    ```

1.  In the **Main** method, enter the following code at the end of the method to render the **Uri** property of the *blobClient* variable:

    ```
    await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Blob Url:\t{blobClient.Uri}");
    ```

1.  Observe the **Main** method, which should now include:

    ```
    public static async Task Main(string[] args)
    {
        \\ Existing code removed for brevity
        
        await EnumerateContainersAsync(serviceClient);

        string existingContainerName = "raster-graphics";
        await EnumerateBlobsAsync(serviceClient, existingContainerName);
        
        string newContainerName = "vector-graphics";
        BlobContainerClient containerClient = await GetContainerAsync(serviceClient, newContainerName);
        
        string uploadedBlobName = "graph.svg";
        BlobClient blobClient = await GetBlobAsync(containerClient, uploadedBlobName);

        await Console.Out.WriteLineAsync($"Blob Url:\t{blobClient.Uri}");
    }
    ```

1.  Save the **Program.cs** file.

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, right-click or activate the shortcut menu for the Explorer pane, and then select **Open in Terminal**.

1.  At the open command prompt, enter the following command, and then select Enter to run the .NET web application:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the **Program.cs** file in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\03\\Solution\\BlobManager** folder.

1.  Observe the output from the currently running console application. The updated output includes the final URL to access the blob online. Record the value of this URL to use later in the lab.

    > **Note**: The URL will likely be similar to the following string: **https://mediastor*[yourname]*.blob.core.windows.net/vector-graphics/graph.svg**

1.  Select **Kill Terminal** or the **Recycle Bin** icon to close the currently open terminal and any associated processes.

#### Task 5: Test the URI by using a browser

1.  On the taskbar, right-click the **Microsoft Edge** icon or activate the shortcut menu, and then select **New window**.

1.  In the new browser window, go to the URL that you copied for the blob earlier in this lab.

1.  You should now notice the Scalable Vector Graphic (SVG) file in your browser window.

#### Review

In this exercise, you created containers and managed blobs by using the Storage SDK. 

